Etpu10-56165 (E)    121010 *1056165*
Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
I. Introduction
1. The present report is submitted pursuant to resolution 1925 (2010) of 28 May 2010, by which the Security Council extended the mandate of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) until 30 June; decided that, from 1 July, the Mission should bear the title United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO); and extended the mandate of MONUSCO until 30 June 2011. In the resolution, the Council also requested, in paragraph 20, that I report, by 11 October, on the progress on the ground, in particular with respect to the assessment conducted jointly with the Congolese authorities regarding progress on implementation of the objectives set out in paragraph 6 of the resolution. The report covers developments since my report of 30 March 2010 (S/2010/164).
II. Major developments
2. On 30 June, the Democratic Republic of the Congo celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of its independence. The State celebrations in Kinshasa were attended by a number of heads of State, including those of Rwanda, Uganda and South Africa, as well as of Belgium. I attended the celebrations at the invitation of President Joseph Kabila. In his message to the nation, President Kabila declared that the fiftieth anniversary marked a “new departure” for the Democratic Republic of the Congo. While citing significant progress, including with regard to the restoration of peace in the country and with its neighbours, the President also acknowledged shortcomings in the areas of development, social progress and human rights, and noted that the country had several remaining challenges to overcome. 3. Most of the country was relatively stable during the reporting period. However, violence by armed groups and military operations by the Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) against those groups continued, notably in the provinces of North and South Kivu and Orientale. Serious human rights violations by the armed groups and national security elements also continued, and alliances continued or were forged among the armed groups. Enyele insurgents attacked the provincial capital of Equateur, and a significant number of those
S/2010/512
10-56165 2
displaced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to the neighbouring countries of the Congo and the Central African Republic since October 2009 remained reluctant to return. 4. The announcement of the electoral calendar by the Independent Electoral Commission led to intensified efforts and growing expectations relating to elections, although significant logistical and financial challenges remain. On 1 July, the Democratic Republic of the Congo reached the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion point, effectively cancelling some $12.3 billion of external debt.
North and South Kivu
5. In the Kivus, FARDC continued operations against the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR). Some of those operations received support from MONUSCO, in accordance with the joint operational directive for Operation Amani Leo and the MONUSCO conditionality policy (see S/2009/623, paras. 12 and 13). In a meeting held in Kisangani from 26 to 28 July, the FARDC Chief of Defence Staff and the MONUSCO Force Commander determined that the military operations had further reduced the operational capability of FDLR since the end of March. Operation Amani Leo was also extended, with the aim of increasing the emphasis on targeted operations. 6. Military pressure continued to contribute to FDLR desertions and voluntary participation in the MONUSCO disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration process. Since military operations began in January 2009, 5,238 FDLR elements have been repatriated to Rwanda, including 2,266 former combatants and 2,972 dependants. In addition, the repatriation of some 22,230 Rwandan civilians was facilitated by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 7. However, FARDC continued to face difficulties in holding ground, and several areas in Masisi, Rutshuru, Walikale, Shabunda and Mwenga territories were reoccupied by FDLR. There have also been reports of new recruitment by FDLR. In addition, the security situation deteriorated in several zones in the Kivus as FDLR attacks against civilians increased, and loose alliances of FDLR, Mayi-Mayi and other Congolese armed group elements targeted civilians. Human rights violations were also perpetrated by elements of the security forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 8. Among the most serious incidents, as confirmed by the findings of a MONUSCO human rights investigation team, which were issued in a report on 24 September, was the systematic rape of at least 303 people in 13 villages on the Mpofi-Kibua axis in Walikale territory between 30 July and 2 August by FDLR and Mayi-Mayi Cheka elements. At least 923 houses and 42 shops were also looted, and 116 civilians were abducted and subjected to forced labour by the assailants. Partial reports of the attacks did not reach MONUSCO until several days after they had begun, and MONUSCO patrols and protection mechanisms in this case were unable to detect the gravity of the situation, prompting widespread criticism of the Mission’s perceived failure to protect civilians. FARDC units based in the area had been redeployed some two months prior to the attack. 9. Between 28 August and 2 September, I dispatched the Assistant Secretary- General for Peacekeeping Operations, Atul Khare, to the Democratic Republic of
S/2010/512
3 10-56165
the Congo to assess, together with MONUSCO senior leadership, the challenges faced by MONUSCO with regard to the protection of civilians despite the innovative measures introduced since January 2009 to reduce the risk of such incidents and improve the effectiveness of the Mission’s response. In a briefing by Mr. Khare to the Security Council on 8 September, a number of recommendations were made aimed at enhancing the protection of civilians alongside ongoing efforts to implement the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (see my report of 4 December 2009 (S/2009/623)), which are outlined in paragraphs 34 and 35 below. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo also announced the establishment of a commission tasked with bringing the perpetrators to justice, which is expected to visit Walikale early in October. MONUSCO and the United Nations system in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are extending the required support to the Commission. 10. On 1 September, MONUSCO launched Operation Shop Window, which is aimed at putting pressure on the armed groups, improving the protection of local populations, reinforcing contact with local populations, preventing armed groups from pursuing their operations and supporting the Government in its efforts to capture the perpetrators of the attacks in the areas where the attacks of 30 July to 2 August occurred. Some 750 MONUSCO troops were redeployed to Pinga, Kibua and Walikale in North Kivu to conduct the military operations, which were additional to those undertaken by MONUSCO temporary and company operating bases in the area. The operation was completed on 18 September, resulting in the surrender of 27 Mayi-Mayi elements and the arrest of three Mayi-Mayi elements and one FDLR element. On 5 October, “Lieutenant Colonel” Mayele was arrested in the Walikale area, following a joint FARDC-MONUSCO operation conducted in close coordination with the Democratic Republic of the Congo Military Auditor of the Operational Military Court. Mayele, the “chief of staff” of the Mayi-Mayi Cheka group, is alleged to have coordinated the series of attacks in Walikale territory of 30 July-2 August, along with FDLR elements led by “Colonel” Serafim. 11. A number of other attacks were also reported in Walikale territory, North Kivu, where rich mineral deposits and illicit trade have made it a zone of intense rivalry among armed groups and undisciplined FARDC units. On 24 July, FDLR and Mayi- Mayi elements attacked the Kilambo airstrip, taking hostages and killing or injuring both FARDC elements and civilians. The hostages were released on 1 August following successful negotiations by local authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, supported by MONUSCO. The preliminary results of a MONUSCO human rights investigation found that on 16 and 17 August, a group of FDLR and Mayi-Mayi Cheka had carried out an attack on the village of Mubi during which at least 40 women and girls were victims of sexual violence. Fifty civilians were also kidnapped and made to transport looted goods, but were released on 25 August. On 1 September, a coalition of FDLR and Mayi-Mayi again attacked the airstrip of Kilambo, abducting two pilots, who were released on 23 September. MONUSCO launched an immediate investigation into reports that on 19 September, a FARDC special commando unit comprising 450 men may have looted several villages on the Pinga-Kibua axis, raping several women and injuring or killing a number of civilians. 12. In a very serious attack against the Mission, on 18 August three United Nations peacekeepers were killed by unidentified assailants in a night-time raid on a MONUSCO company operating base at Kirumba, in North Kivu. MONUSCO has
S/2010/512
10-56165 4
taken additional force protection measures and launched a full investigation into the events surrounding the attack. On 27 August, five suspects who had been arrested as a result of the investigation carried out by the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo into the attack were transferred to Goma with the assistance of MONUSCO. 13. In South Kivu, MONUSCO dispatched Joint Protection Team missions and/or human rights investigation teams to look into several reported attacks against civilians by armed groups and national security elements in Shabunda and Mwenga territories. On 31 August, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat cited information gathered in health centres by the territorial commission against sexual violence, reporting some 214 cases of rape in Shabunda territory and 74 in Mwenga territory in July and August. Also in South Kivu, with MONUSCO support, the South Kivu Military Prosecutor opened an investigation into reports that 10 women had been raped on 17 August by FARDC elements in Katalukulu, in Fizi territory. 14. Against that backdrop, the implementation of the 23 March 2009 Agreements came to a near-standstill. Signatories, most notably the Congrès national pour la défense du peuple (CNDP), continued to express concern regarding the lack of integration of their civilian representatives into the country’s governance institutions at various levels, although several CNDP political representatives have been absorbed into local administration positions in North Kivu. Signatories also expressed concern regarding the delays in the implementation of the decisions of the commission on military ranks, which completed its work in January 2009. 15. The Minister of Defence confirmed the Government’s agreement to further extend the integration of the Congolese armed groups into FARDC. A first group was processed at Kituku, North Kivu (see para. 53 below), but further progress has been halted owing to a shortage of funds. In addition, the completion by FARDC of the biometrical registration of recently integrated elements — a programme supported by the European Union Mission of Assistance for Security Reform in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (EUSEC) — which is a requirement for soldiers to receive their salary payments, remained pending. Ambiguity persisted with respect to the commitments made by “General” La Fontaine, the leader of the Mayi- Mayi Patriotes résistants congolais, to complete the integration of his combatants, while “General” Janvier Buingo Karairi continued to resist the integration of the Mayi-Mayi Alliance des patriotes pour un Congo libre et souverain (APCLS). However, on 29 June, the leader of the Forces patriotique pour la libération du Congo (FPLC), Gad Ngabo, was arrested in Uganda. 16. On 9 September, President Kabila called for the integration of the remaining Congolese armed groups and announced a ban on the mining, processing and marketing of minerals in North Kivu, South Kivu and Maniema provinces in an effort to curb illegal mining activities.
Operation Rwenzori
17. On 25 June, in the wake of growing concerns in Uganda about the Allied Democratic Forces/National Army for the Liberation of Uganda (ADF-NALU), a Ugandan armed group primarily based in Beni territory, North Kivu, and following consultations between the military authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda, FARDC launched unilateral operations, known as Operation
S/2010/512
5 10-56165
Rwenzori, against the group. The military operations resulted in the temporary displacement of up to 100,000 civilians in Beni territory, some of whom have since returned. Reports also indicated an increase in human rights violations by some FARDC elements in the area, including the use of forced labour to transport items for FARDC, extortion and arbitrary arrests. 18. On 3 September, FARDC launched the second phase of the operation. On 9 September, FARDC reported that it had regained control of the areas of Makembi and Chuchubo. The MONUSCO presence in the area is limited to a battalion headquarters and a company in Beni, and a military position in Eringeti.
Orientale province
19. In Orientale province, FARDC continued Operation Rudia II against the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), alongside the separate Uganda People’s Defence Forces military operations, which extended into the Central African Republic and southern Sudan. MONUSCO continued to provide support to FARDC operations and to contribute to the protection of civilians against LRA attacks. On 2 June, the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General and Heads of the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in the Central African Republic, the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United Nations Mission in the Sudan, as well as a senior representative of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, met in Entebbe to discuss the regional threat posed by, and coordinate efforts against, LRA. Participants agreed to enhance cooperation and information-sharing, including through the establishment of LRA focal points in each mission and of an inter-mission coordination cell on the LRA within MONUSCO. 20. On 27 July, in Kisangani, the Chiefs of Defence Staff of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda and the Central African Republic met with the MONUSCO Force Commander and agreed to set up a joint intelligence and operations centre to coordinate operations against LRA in Dungu; the centre is currently being established. MONUSCO continued to maintain company and temporary operating bases at Faradje, Dungu, Duru, Niangara, Ngilima and Bangadi, in Haut-Uélé. In Bas-Uélé, MONUSCO transferred security responsibilities to the FARDC unit in the territory, which receives logistical support from the Mission, and closed its base at Dingila. However, plans are under way to establish a MONUSCO presence elsewhere in the territory. Meanwhile, LRA attacks against civilians have continued, with an increasing number reported in remote areas in Bas-Uélé. Human rights violations by FARDC elements were also reported, notably in the areas of Bangadi and Ngilima, in Haut-Uélé. 21. In Ituri district, the MONUSCO-supported FARDC Operation Iron Stone dislodged the Front de résistance patriotique d’Ituri (FRPI) and the Front populaire pour la justice au Congo (FPJC) from their bases at Apa, Kule and Oku in southern Irumu territory. On 1 September, a leader of FPJC, Sharif Manda, was arrested in Uganda and transferred to the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. However, Justin Wanaloki, also known as Cobra Matata, who had left FRPI and integrated into FARDC, deserted in early June and reportedly began recruiting and reorganizing a militia group in southern Ituri.
S/2010/512
10-56165 6
Equateur province
22. On 4 and 5 April, some 100 armed elements of an Enyele insurgent group attacked Mbandaka, including the Governor’s residence and the airport. The airport was retaken and order restored by 6 April following coordinated operations by FARDC and MONUC. A United Nations peacekeeper and two civilian contractors associated with MONUC were killed during the attack. MONUC reinforced its presence by temporarily redeploying some 110 troops to Equateur while providing limited support to FARDC. 23. Following the attack of 4 and 5 April, on 5 May the group’s leader, Udjani Mangbama, reportedly surrendered in Mombendzélé, Congo. Mangbama is being held under house arrest in Oio, also in the Congo. On 2 July, Udjani’s father, Ibrahim Mangbama, who is reported to be the spiritual leader of the Enyele, was arrested by FARDC at Bomongo. On 3 July, he was transported by MONUSCO to Kinshasa, where he is awaiting trial. Separately, on 18 May, following investigations, 36 suspected Enyele elements were arrested and 11 were sentenced in Mbandaka in connection with the attack of 4 and 5 April. A MONUSCO human rights investigation also found that some elements of the Congolese security forces were responsible for human rights violations during and in the aftermath of the attack. Although the situation has largely stabilized, some Enyele insurgent activity reportedly continued in the rural areas near Enyele, Imesse and Dongo, in Equateur province. 24. On 10 June, a tripartite agreement was signed between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Congo and UNHCR on the voluntary repatriation of some 120,000 refugees who have been in the Congo since October 2009.
Institutions of Government and Parliament
25. During the ordinary parliamentary session held from 15 March to 15 June, 34 bills were considered and 15 laws adopted, including legislation on public procurement, the agricultural code, and the statute of magistrates, as well as the law criminalizing torture. Legislative progress with respect to security sector reform was limited to the passing of the statute on military personnel and FARDC. Other important laws, including those relating to the electoral process, constitutional amendments and decentralization, were not presented to the Parliament during the session. The following ordinary session of the Parliament opened on 15 September. 26. On 14 May, some members of the ruling Alliance de la majorité présidentielle (AMP) coalition issued a political charter aimed at creating a “liberal” aisle within the group, which was subsequently withdrawn on 29 May. Also on 14 May, the opposition Mouvement de libération du Congo (MLC) tabled a no-confidence motion against the Prime Minister, Adolphe Muzito, which was withdrawn on 19 May. 27. On 28 July, President Kabila promulgated the law on the National Independent Electoral Commission, which had been adopted by the National Assembly. Under the law, the National Assembly will nominate seven members of the Commission, four from AMP and three from the opposition. 28. At the provincial level, divergences between the legislative and executive branches of local government continued in North Kivu, Equateur, Katanga and Kasaï Occidental provinces. In addition, on 16 and 19 April, respectively, the Governors of Maniema and South Kivu provinces resigned following differences between them and their respective provincial assemblies. On 12 June, AMP
S/2010/512
candidates Marcellin Cishambo and Pascal Tutu won the special gubernatorial elections in South Kivu and Maniema provinces, respectively.
Economic situation
29. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth was expected to rise to 6.1 per cent in the first trimester of 2010, more than double that achieved during the same period in 2009. Economic growth remained largely dependent on the mining sector, fuelled by increased output in the country’s main export minerals, including copper and cobalt, as commodity prices regained value lost in 2009. As noted in paragraph 4 of the present report, the Democratic Republic of the Congo also successfully achieved the HIPC completion point. However, the country continued to face a poor investment climate, ranking 182 out of 183 economies in the 2010 “Doing Business” report of the World Bank. In addition, the payment of civil-servant salaries continued to face delays.
Humanitarian situation
30. An estimated 1.97 million people remained internally displaced at the end of August in North and South Kivu, Orientale, Katanga and Equateur provinces, 1.5 million of whom are in the Kivus. The number of displaced persons increased by approximately 9,000 to 263,000 in the Uélés as a result of LRA activity, with Bas- Uélé remaining particularly vulnerable owing to insecurity and lack of infrastructure. A total of 120 security incidents affecting humanitarian organizations were reported during the first half of 2010, double the number during the same period in 2009. Insecurity further prevented humanitarian agencies from carrying out comprehensive needs evaluations and providing assistance to affected populations in certain remote areas.
Regional developments
31. On 1 and 2 April, the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) convened a meeting in Kinshasa of the Presidents of the parliaments of Burundi, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to discuss peace, security, cooperation and economic development issues. A formal declaration issued following the meeting noted the contribution of CEPGL to enhancing relations between the member countries and announced the re-establishment of several principal organs of CEPGL. 32. On 14 and 15 June, the President of Burundi, Pierre Nkurunziza, visited Kinshasa to discuss the establishment of closer economic, trade and diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The establishment of a Burundian consulate in Bukavu and a Democratic Republic of the Congo consulate in Bujumbura was agreed. From 19 to 21 August, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo participated as an observer in a meeting of the East African Community in Nairobi. On 6 September, President Kabila attended the inauguration of the President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, following his re-election in elections conducted on 9 August. Relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola remained intermittently strained as a result of their ongoing maritime border dispute and the periodic expulsion of nationals of both countries. On 21 September, President Kabila met with the President of Angola, José Eduardo dos Santos, in Luanda to discuss bilateral matters and issues relating to the Great Lakes region.
S/2010/512
III. Progress towards the achievement of the mandate of MONUSCO
Protection of civilians
33. Protecting civilians remained the first priority and primary challenge for MONUSCO. MONUSCO designated an additional 47 staff from relevant components to participate in Joint Protection Teams, which enabled the Mission to field 47 Joint Protection Team missions since my previous report. Through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), funding was also secured from the Government of the United States of America for 10 international human rights staff to support the Joint Protection Teams in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition, MONUSCO began to establish provincial-level senior management groups for protection in North and South Kivu, with the aim of enhancing early-warning capabilities and monitoring of the implementation of Joint Protection Team recommendations. These measures complemented the deployment of 46 community liaison interpreters in 35 strategic temporary and company operating bases in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO also supported the establishment of early warning centres in remote areas, in partnership with humanitarian non-governmental organizations assisting vulnerable communities in those areas. 34. Despite continued progress in implementing these and other innovative measures developed under the rubric of the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, MONUSCO faced serious challenges in the implementation of its protection mandate during the reporting period. Following the attacks of 30 July to 2 August by FDLR and Mayi- Mayi Cheka elements in Walikale territory (see para. 8), the Mission, in addition to increasing its usual routine activities (evening and night patrols, random and spot- check patrols and systematic interaction with the population), initiated proactive measures such as Operation Shop Window to deal with the causes of insecurity in the area (see para. 10 above). 35. In addition to installing additional high-frequency transmitters in the Luvungi area, which was at the centre of the attacks of 30 July to 2 August, MONUSCO is exploring ways of improving radio communications and the possible use of mobile phones in areas where civilian protection is a particular concern.
Sexual violence
36. The high incidence of rape and other acts of sexual violence throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo remained a matter of serious concern. In particular, armed groups and elements of the security forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo continued to commit acts of sexual violence, several of which are outlined in paragraphs 8, 11 and 13 of the present report. 37. On 24 August, I requested my Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Ms. Margot Wallström, to work with MONUSCO senior leadership and the United Nations country team in coordinating the United Nations response and follow-up to the 30 July-2 August attack. She has called for an examination of the nexus between the presence of armed groups and high levels of violence against civilians, and women in particular; the use of new indicators to detect risk and report sexual violence, such as movements of armed groups and pillaging; and
S/2010/512
9 10-56165
increased support for the implementation of the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy to Combat Sexual Violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has been incorporated into the national strategy to combat gender-based violence. She also proposed to engage with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to enhance efforts to strengthen the rule of law, in particular with respect to ending impunity for sexual violence, including through the provision of support for Government initiatives by MONUSCO and the possible deployment of the team of experts called for by the Security Council in its resolution 1888 (2009). In addition, the Special Representative visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo for a second time from 28 September to 6 October following a preparatory visit by a staff member from her Office to accompany Assistant Secretary-General Khare. Her mission was to, inter alia, support efforts to ensure that the needs of victims are addressed, focus on holding perpetrators accountable and identify opportunities to further strengthen United Nations action to address sexual violence. The Special Representative had conducted an initial familiarization visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 12 to 19 April, during which she met with key Government authorities, national military and police forces, civil society activists, and prominent medical and legal clinics working to bring an end to sexual violence in the country. 38. With regard to the five FARDC officers suspected of serious human rights violations and whose cases were raised with President Kabila during the visit by the Security Council mission in May 2009, three are in detention. Formal requests for assistance were sent with respect to their cases by the Military Attorney-General of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the relevant prosecutor’s offices, and investigations are proceeding. With respect to the two remaining FARDC officers who are at large, one has been located in Equateur Province, where he continues to serve as a battalion commander, despite the fact that the Chief of Defence Staff of FARDC had sent a letter dated 14 June to the FARDC Commander in Equateur requesting that he be made available to the Military Prosecutor. The whereabouts of the fifth individual are unknown. 39.  MONUSCO and the United Nations country team continued to work closely with the Ministry of Gender, Family and Children in coordinating the implementation of the national strategy on sexual and gender-based violence. On 15 June, the funding board of the Stabilization and Recovery Funding Facility approved an initial allocation of $5 million to support the implementation of the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy to Combat Sexual Violence. In August, programmes were launched in Ituri and South Kivu that provide medical and psychological assistance to more than 4,000 victims of sexual violence, as well as sensitization programmes for the Police nationale congolaise, local authorities and civil society groups. In addition, funding was secured to extend the implementation of the MONUSCO access to justice programme for victims of sexual violence to Bas-Congo, Bandundu, Kasaï Occidental, Kasaï Oriental, Katanga and Kinshasa. The Government of the United States also pledged $100,000 to MONUSCO for victim, witness and judicial personnel protection activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 40. MONUSCO began development of a database to compile information on reported acts of sexual violence. In addition, the Mission continued to support the efforts of the United Nations Population Fund to improve programme effectiveness indicators and data collection on sexual violence.
S/2010/512
Children and armed conflict
41. The re-recruitment of children by armed groups and FARDC continued during the reporting period. Most of the children who had been separated or escaped from armed groups or FARDC reported to MONUSCO that they had been re-recruited several times by armed elements. Since March, MONUSCO facilitated the release or escape of 868 children from the national security forces and armed groups, primarily in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and handed them over to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and child-protection actors for protection and reintegration. On 7 July, MONUSCO and UNICEF facilitated the release of 24 minors who had been illegally detained by FARDC in Equateur since April owing to their alleged association with the Enyele insurgency.
Human rights
42. As indicated in section II of the present report, serious human rights violations by armed groups and by elements of the national security forces continued, including acts of arbitrary execution; rape; arbitrary arrest and detention; torture; cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment; and looting. While the most frequent and serious human rights violations continued to take place in the eastern provinces, the situation also remained of concern in some areas in western Democratic Republic of the Congo. 43. On 2 June, Floribert Chebeya Bahizire, Executive Secretary of the Réseau national des ONG des droits de l’homme de la République démocratique du Congo and President of the Congolese non-governmental organization Voix des Sans Voix pour les droits de l’homme, was killed after having been summoned the day before by the Police Inspector General, John Numbi. His driver, Fidèle Bazana Edadi, is still missing. The incident prompted widespread condemnation by the international partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, accompanied by calls for the Government to conduct a transparent investigation into the incident and bring the perpetrators to justice. On 6 June, the Government announced the suspension of Inspector General Numbi. In addition, six Police nationale congolaise elements were detained at Makala prison in Kinshasa in connection with the case. On 8 July, a joint Dutch and Congolese forensic team reported that Mr. Chebeya’s autopsy was inconclusive and that it could not determine with certainty the cause of death. 44. A number of human rights violations targeting civil society activists were also reported in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 30 June, a human rights defender working for the non-governmental organization Le Bon Samaritain was killed by armed elements in military uniform near the town of Beni, North Kivu. On 24 August, the President of Masisi civil society was abducted in Goma by unidentified armed men. He was found on 30 August in poor health and displaying visible signs of mistreatment. The ill-treatment allegedly followed his co-signing of a letter calling for the redeployment of former CNDP FARDC troops responsible for human rights violations. Another civil society activist was abducted on 27 August by unidentified armed men and subsequently released on 1 September near Goma. These deaths and cases of mistreatment aggravated the climate of fear among members of the human rights non-governmental organizations, who are on a regular basis the victims of threats, harassment and other violations of their rights throughout the country.
S/2010/512
11 10-56165
45. On 1 October, the High Commissioner for Human Rights issued the report of a mapping exercise documenting serious human rights violations committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 1993 and 2003. The report describes more than 600 incidents that took place in the country over the 10-year period, including those allegedly committed by foreign and Congolese forces and other armed groups. The report also identifies options for addressing impunity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including judicial mechanisms, truth-seeking, institutional reform and vetting, and reparations for victims.
Implementation of the MONUSCO conditionality policy
46. At the request of FARDC, MONUSCO screened and cleared a number of battalions in North Kivu tasked with holding areas from which FDLR and residual armed groups have been dislodged in the context of Operation Amani Leo. Using existing resources, MONUSCO will extend logistical support to the “hold” units for an initial period of three months. 47. On 8 June, MONUSCO suspended its support to the FARDC 911th, or “Ours”, battalion in Orientale province owing to the serious and persistent human rights violations committed by some of its elements. Subsequently, MONUSCO was informed that six officers of the 911th battalion had been arrested and transferred to the relevant judicial authorities. 48. In accordance with paragraphs 23 and 41 (b) of Security Council resolution 1906 (2009), from 2 to 12 May an inter-agency mission visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo to assess the implementation by MONUC of the conditionality policy. The mission was led by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and included representatives from the Department of Field Support, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of Legal Affairs, OHCHR, the Office of Military Affairs of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UNHCR. 49. The mission concluded that MONUC had made significant efforts to incorporate the conditionality policy into its overall protection efforts, but that serious challenges remained. MONUC had established screening procedures, primarily based on the human rights records of known commanders, in order to determine the eligibility of FARDC units to receive United Nations operational support. The mission had also made a good-faith effort to establish mechanisms and procedures for monitoring the behaviour of those FARDC units in the field that were receiving support from MONUC, and for interceding with the FARDC command where there was evidence of abuse of civilians by FARDC personnel. 50. The inter-agency mission nonetheless noted a number of areas in which MONUC faced challenges in implementing the policy, notably in the adequate screening and monitoring of the behaviour of FARDC units receiving support; in terms of communications regarding the policy, both internally and with Democratic Republic of the Congo stakeholders; and in applying the policy consistently across the country. The mission also found that it was not possible at this stage to demonstrate whether the conditionality policy was having an impact on FARDC behaviour, which is a central objective. While FARDC, for its part, acknowledged the conditionality policy and welcomed MONUC support, some senior Commanders expressed the view that the related procedures were cumbersome and hindered the progress of military operations.
S/2010/512
Illegal exploitation of natural resources
51. MONUSCO continued to support the Ministry of Mining of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the establishment of mineral trading counters in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The first counter has been constructed in Mubi, Walikale territory, and awaits the deployment of administrative and Police nationale congolaise staff who are in the process of being trained. On the basis of illicit trade patterns, additional counters are being built in Itebero and Rubaya, in North Kivu, and in Mugogo and Numbi, in South Kivu. The construction of the mineral trading counters in Mubi, Itebero and Numbi will deal predominantly with metals and minerals produced in Walikale. Combined with the mining ban announced by President Kabila (see para. 16), the trading counters aim to increase the transparency and legality of the mineral trade.
Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration/disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration
52. Between January and September, 829 foreign combatants and 811 dependants were repatriated — less than half the number repatriated during the same period in 2009 — of whom 733 were FDLR combatants and 18 LRA combatants. However, the number of Congolese FDLR elements who reported to MONUSCO in the context of the disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration programme during the same period rose from 216 in the first seven months of 2009 to 390 in the same period in 2010; 285 of them were children. 53. On 24 June, a new disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme was authorized by the Congolese Minister of Defence to address the issue of residual Congolese combatants, 4,000 of whom MONUSCO and its partners estimate remain active in the Kivus and Maniema. Of these, approximately 1,000 are Congolese members of FDLR and ADF. MONUSCO assisted in the disengagement process of residual Congolese armed combatants at the Kituku regroupment centre, 82 per cent of whom chose to demobilize.
Security sector reform
54. MONUSCO continued its mandated efforts to support the harmonization of security sector reform. The Mission convened an ambassadors’ forum and working group meetings on security sector reform, which have included the participation of officials of the Democratic Republic of the Congo representing the Ministries of Defence and of the Interior as well as the Office of the National Security Adviser to the President. The Mission also continued to encourage the Government to develop a viable national security sector reform strategy and provided support to the national authorities by developing tools to facilitate information-sharing among security sector reform stakeholders.
Army reform
55. Progress on reform of FARDC was largely stalled during the reporting period. Several bilateral training programmes supporting the implementation of the army reform plan were stalled or completed, while the continuation of others was in question. In addition, the three draft laws on army reform have yet to be adopted by the Parliament. In the absence of a legal framework, there continued to be a lack of coherent FARDC training doctrine. However, some progress was made in the
S/2010/512
13 10-56165
building of barracks for FARDC in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including in Kindu, and in the refurbishing of some barracks in South Kivu. 56. The Government had also requested support with respect to equipping three military police battalions to be trained by Congolese trainers, which the Security Council also did not authorize MONUSCO to provide. With funding from bilateral partners and facilitation from MONUSCO, the International Organization for Migration is leading efforts to refurbish the Lokosa camp in Kisangani, which national authorities have indicated would be used for the training of a military police battalion that would be deployed to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Police reform
57. Following the request by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for MONUSCO to train and provide basic equipment for the build-up of police battalions (see S/2010/164, para. 108), the Security Council, in its resolution 1925 (2010), did not authorize MONUSCO to provide the equipment requested by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO therefore worked with the authorities of the country on a project to develop a national training capacity and a training programme that will provide six months of intensive training on police functions for 1,500 police personnel. The curriculum was developed jointly by MONUSCO and the Government. The training programme includes three programme components, one of which is being funded with the support of the Japan International Cooperation Agency. On 21 September, the training of an initial 500 personnel began at the Kapalata training centre, which was refurbished by MONUSCO. Two similar courses are expected to begin by the end of the year at additional training sites, also refurbished by MONUSCO. 58. In addition to these efforts, MONUSCO continued to support the executive secretariat of the steering committee for police reform and, in cooperation with the European Union Police Mission in Kinshasa, reform of the coordinating and implementing body for the General Inspectorate for the Police nationale congolaise.
Rule of law
59. As mandated by the Security Council in paragraph 12 (o) of its resolution 1925 (2010), MONUSCO, UNDP and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in close consultation with the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, initiated the development of a multi-year (2010-2012) joint United Nations justice support programme focused on developing the criminal justice chain, the police, the judiciary and prisons in conflict-affected areas and strategic programmatic support at the central level in Kinshasa. A preliminary draft outlining five institutional pillars, namely, judicial police; access to justice; integrity, transparency and judicial practice; prison administration; and anti-corruption, was completed in August. 60. MONUSCO continued to provide support to civilian and military prosecutors in the process of investigating and obtaining redress for human rights violations and combating impunity. In that connection, MONUSCO is establishing an initial capacity for the prosecution support cells and supported the efforts made by the authorities of the country to reinforce key military justice infrastructure in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO also worked in support of the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to develop an increased capacity for cooperation with the International Criminal Court. However, serious
S/2010/512
10-56165 14
obstacles to the administration of justice remained. On 12 August, former CNDP elements integrated into FARDC forcibly freed a former commander from the Goma Military Prosecutor’s office, who had been arrested for refusing to be redeployed from Walikale territory following accusations of human rights violations by FARDC elements under his command.
Corrections
61. With MONUSCO support, the reconstruction of the Ndolo military prison in Kinshasa was completed, and plans to make the prison operational were finalized. At the Goma Central Prison, construction of a structure designed to separate juveniles and women neared completion. However, despite those efforts, prison conditions throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular in conflict-affected areas, remained dire.
Elections
62. On 9 August, the Independent Electoral Commission published a new electoral calendar in which first-round presidential and national legislative elections are set to be conducted on 27 November 2011. If a second presidential round is required, it would be held together with the provincial legislative elections on 26 February 2012. Senatorial and gubernatorial elections would be held in 2012 and local elections in 2013. Several opposition representatives criticized the fact that the first round of presidential elections is scheduled to take place just nine days before the end of President Kabila’s current constitutional mandate, on 6 December 2011. The Constitution specifies that presidential elections should be held 90 days before the expiry of the presidential mandate. An eventual second round would be held after it expires. 63. On 5 June, Prime Minister Muzito formally requested United Nations technical and logistical assistance for the voter registration process, and the general and local elections. Subsequently, an electoral needs assessment mission visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 26 July to 10 August, led by the Department of Political Affairs and composed of representatives from the Department of Field Support, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and UNDP, which reviewed the status of preparations for the elections with the United Nations system, national authorities and international stakeholders. It recommended that MONUSCO and the international community provide increased support, including financial and logistical support, to the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and identified benchmarks, including appropriate time frames for the successful conduct of the polls. The needs assessment mission also recommended a gradual transfer of lead responsibility from MONUSCO to UNDP with respect to electoral assistance upon completion of the general elections, and provided recommendations regarding logistical support for the carrying out of the voter registration process by MONUSCO. Subsequently, MONUSCO submitted a supplementary budget of $40.6 million for logistical and technical support for the elections. 64. The current estimated budget for the 2007-2013 electoral process is approximately $715 million. The Government has pledged to increase its financial commitment with respect to the projected costs for the elections to approximately $390 million.
S/2010/512
15 10-56165
65. While the law establishing the National Independent Electoral Commission has been promulgated, important legislation relating to the electoral process remained pending in the Parliament, as did decisions by the Executive regarding the electoral constituencies. Delays continued regarding the voter registration process, which, according to the new calendar, is now due to start in most provinces in December. It has concluded in Bas-Congo, where approximately 1.4 million voters were registered. MONUSCO is transporting voter registration material to 13 hubs and nearly 200 sub-hubs in the other provinces, and it continued to provide technical support to the electoral authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 66. The lack of regular disbursement of Government funds together with major logistical hurdles continued to pose considerable challenges in terms of the timely and credible conduct of the electoral process. Delays in the transportation of voter registration kits to the provinces would also have an impact on the electoral timeline.
Reconfiguration of MONUSCO
67. In accordance with Security Council resolution 1925 (2010) and in consultation with the Government, MONUSCO has completed the withdrawal of 1,494 troops. The withdrawal included the Tunisian battalion in Kinshasa, the Senegalese battalion based in Kisangani, a part of the Benin battalion from Katanga, a Uruguayan riverine unit from Ituri and Malawian and Bolivian guard units from Maniema and the Kivus. An additional 180 personnel from among those units will remain until November 2010 to monitor the withdrawal of contingent-owned equipment. The units that were withdrawn were selected with a view to limiting the impact of their departure on the operational capacity of MONUSCO and the implementation of its mandate. 68. On 16 July, the Government of India informed the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of its decision to not renew the letters of assist for 9 of the 23 military helicopters that it contributes to MONUSCO; these helicopters have since been repatriated to India. The Government of India has also indicated its intention not to renew a further four attack and six utility helicopters by March 2011 when the current letters of assist expire. The repatriation of the five utility helicopters and four attack helicopters, in addition to nearly 200 military personnel, represents a 25 per cent reduction in the MONUSCO military utility fleet and half of the Mission’s attack helicopters. The repatriation of the aircraft has already begun to have a major impact on the Mission’s mobility and operational capacity, including with respect to sustaining its temporary and company operating bases. It will also hamper the Mission’s ability to provide support to FARDC military operations in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. We have redoubled our efforts to secure pledges for the withdrawn assets, which are additional to the 14 helicopters and other air assets authorized by the Security Council in its resolution 1843 (2008) for which pledges have yet to be received. 69. As agreed with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations system in the country and the Government initiated a process to assess the progress made towards the implementation of the objectives outlined in paragraphs 6, 7 and 20 of Security Council resolution 1925 (2010). In June, a joint MONUSCO-Government working-level national team was established in Kinshasa and agreed on terms of reference and a methodology for the joint assessment process. The team is co-led by the National Security Adviser of the Democratic Republic of the
S/2010/512
10-56165 16
Congo and MONUSCO and comprises representatives of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Ministries of Defence, the Interior, Justice and Human Rights, and Foreign Affairs, and of MONUSCO and the United Nations country team. 70. Workshops were held with Democratic Republic of the Congo provincial representatives in Orientale, North and South Kivu, Maniema, Katanga and Equateur provinces so as to present the methodology and identify areas for joint field visits. In July and August, the teams visited 55 locations throughout eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and Equateur. 71. Guided by questionnaires and a number of indicators, the teams assessed the security situation, the presence and the capacity of armed groups, the capacity of the various Democratic Republic of the Congo security services to deal with the threat of such groups, the presence of State administrative services, including electoral support, and the population’s perception of the situation on the ground. The teams interviewed local government officials, customary chiefs, representatives of FARDC, the Police nationale congolaise and other security services and civil society representatives. The provincial teams were led by the provincial Ministers of the Interior and the MONUSCO heads of office. The provincial teams were composed of Congolese authorities and representatives of substantive MONUSCO sections, military observers and United Nations civilian police. In addition, the United Nations country team designated representatives of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and UNHCR to participate in the teams. 72. The findings of the provincial teams have been provided to the national team, which will produce a joint consolidated report for the consideration of the Government and the United Nations, as requested by the Security Council in paragraph 7 of its resolution 1925 (2010). The conclusions reached will be reflected in my next report to the Security Council.
MONUSCO and United Nations country team stabilization and peacebuilding efforts
73. Within the framework of the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in support of the Government’s Stabilization and Reconstruction Plan for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo programme, 22 police stations, two judicial courts, one prison and five local administrative offices have been constructed along priority axes in the Kivus. The rehabilitation of roads and bridges on priority axes, namely, Rutshuru-Ishasha, Baraka-Fizi, and Bunia-Boga, in the Kivus, has been completed. 74. On 14 July, in a meeting of the funding board of the Stabilization and Recover Funding facility co-chaired by Prime Minister Muzito, four projects were recommended for approval for funding by the Peacebuilding Fund, focusing on enhancing the capacity of the provincial technical commission for pacification and reconciliation and the local conciliation committees in working on mitigating conflicts linked to the return of refugees and internally displaced persons in North Kivu, and in support of the extension of State authority, emergency road rehabilitation and the deployment of police. The Peacebuilding Fund has committed $13.9 million for these initiatives from its total allocation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo of $20 million. A total of $183 million (including the Peacebuilding Fund allocation) has been provided under the framework of the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic
S/2010/512
17 10-56165
Republic of the Congo, and there is an estimated funding gap of $655 million for activities in the framework of the stabilization and reconstruction plan for areas emerging from armed conflict and of the Support Strategy. 75. In addition to the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, as indicated in my previous report (S/2010/164), MONUSCO and the United Nations country team began the development of a peace consolidation programme. The objectives of the programme are to support the implementation of the structural reforms needed to give the Congolese State the capacity to project its authority nationwide, to strengthen the capacity of communities to respond to adverse shocks, and to provide economic opportunities to unemployed young people and other high-risk groups, as well as delivering tangible peace dividends in the western provinces. The United Nations country team is conducting a midterm review of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework, with a view to developing a revised results framework and further enhancing the alignment between the Development Assistance Framework and the draft Integrated Strategic Framework. 76. In provinces where the peace consolidation programme is to be implemented, the United Nations country team is finalizing the operational framework for the establishment of joint United Nations offices, to be led by area coordinators. MONUSCO and United Nations country team staff would be co-located in the joint offices in selected provinces and share common services and support costs. MONUSCO would continue to provide support staff to monitor and report on the political, security, military and human rights developments in the provinces, and substantive civilian staff to contribute to the implementation of the programme in areas that fall within its mandate, such as the rule of law and civil affairs.
IV. Observations
77. The present report presents a mixed portrait of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The country has made significant progress and could benefit from a number of positive developments. At the same time, persistent challenges and certain negative trends, if not addressed, could reverse the gains made. Improved economic growth, the achievement of the HIPC completion point and the increase in Government revenue since the beginning of the year are encouraging developments that have the potential to produce long-awaited peace dividends for the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Despite significant challenges, the Parliament and other democratic institutions have continued their efforts to play their constitutional roles. Most of the country remains free of armed conflict, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo is at peace with its neighbours. The consolidation of normal diplomatic relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its Great Lakes neighbours contributes to regional stability and continues to offer constructive avenues for addressing the outstanding issues and potential sources of friction, and the country has become an increasingly active participant in regional institutions. All of these factors, along with a continued engagement by the United Nations and the international community, are creating conditions conducive to the Democratic Republic of the Congo realizing the new departure hailed by President Kabila during the fiftieth anniversary celebrations of the country’s independence, on 30 June.
S/2010/512
10-56165 18
78. In this context, I welcome the decision of the Security Council to rename MONUC as MONUSCO, reflecting a new partnership between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United Nations. As authorized by the Council and in consultation with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some 1,494 troops have been withdrawn from MONUSCO. In addition, I welcome the preliminary joint work of the Government and United Nations system in the country to assess the progress made in the implementation of the objectives set out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Security Council resolution 1925 (2010). I look forward to sharing the outcomes of that process in my next report to the Security Council. 79. It is nonetheless clear that significant challenges have yet to be overcome by the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The serious acts of violence against civilians in the eastern part of the country, the continued presence of FDLR, LRA and Congolese armed groups, and the violations of human rights by some elements of FARDC described in the present report continue, owing in large part to the absence of State authority in the affected provinces, the lack of progress in building professional and effective national security and rule-of-law institutions and competition for the illegal exploitation of natural resources. These are among the fundamental issues which, if not addressed, will continue to hamper efforts to establish lasting stability in the country. It is therefore essential to address both the causes and the symptoms of instability if the Democratic Republic of the Congo is to counter the threat of armed groups, effectively protect its population and enjoy relative stability throughout the country. 80. Constructive dialogue and close collaboration between the Government and MONUSCO is critical to ensuring the protection of civilians. I urge the Government to assume its full measure of responsibility in this regard. At the same time, the atrocities perpetrated between 31 July and 2 August in the Kibua-Mpofi area of Walikale territory have demonstrated that MONUSCO must do better in its effort to protect civilians. The abominable acts of sexual violence and other human rights violations perpetrated with impunity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo compel all those with the responsibility to protect civilians to make every possible effort to prevent such terrible atrocities in future and to bring the perpetrators of such acts to justice. 81. Despite the protection afforded to many thousands of civilians, MONUSCO protection measures in the Kibua-Mpofi area need to be improved. The recommendations outlined in the present report that are aimed at improving MONUSCO efforts to protect civilians will be implemented alongside the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the fullest extent possible. In this regard, the need for additional helicopters has been intensified by the loss of existing air assets. The United Nations will also provide all possible assistance to efforts by judicial institutions and the Government to bring perpetrators, and in particular the leaders responsible for those crimes, to justice and ensure services and reparations for victims. The team of experts established by the Security Council in its resolution 1888 (2009) can help to provide the support necessary to assist in this endeavour. 82. Overall, the security situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remains of serious concern. In the Kivus, repeated attacks against civilians by FDLR and Congolese armed groups have increased, in particular but not only in Walikale territory in North Kivu, in South Kivu, and in Bas-Uélé, in Orientale province. The
S/2010/512
19 10-56165
emergence of loose alliances of FDLR, Mayi-Mayi and other Congolese armed groups that prey on civilians risks compromising the gains made in 2009 as a result of, inter alia, improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its Great Lakes neighbours. The structural weaknesses of FARDC, which were compounded by the incomplete integration of the Congolese armed groups, including CNDP, into FARDC, have continued to create vacuums that FDLR and other armed groups exploit. At the same time, multidimensional efforts to eliminate the threat posed by armed groups have suffered from the failure to extend effective State authority, including Democratic Republic of the Congo police personnel, to maintain stability in areas cleared by military operations. I would again urge Member States, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to redouble their efforts to implement the relevant sanctions imposed by the Security Council, increase legal pressure on FDLR diaspora leaders, and dismantle criminal networks in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. If current trends are not reversed, ongoing political, military, humanitarian and recovery efforts may prove insufficient to stem the violence and dismantle the remaining foreign and Congolese armed groups. 83. Similar challenges continue in Orientale province, where brutal attacks against civilians are perpetrated by LRA in an area where there is virtually no State presence and where the resources available to FARDC and MONUSCO to secure the area are not commensurate with its size. These atrocities warrant the highest degree of commitment on the part of the Government, supported by MONUSCO, to protect vulnerable communities. The efforts made to enhance coordination among United Nations peacekeeping and special political missions in LRA-affected areas should be complemented by increased engagement on the part of States in the region and those with the capacity to assist to devise effective regional action. In Ituri, despite the progress achieved to date, there is a risk that armed groups will re-emerge, a problem that is exacerbated by the presence of thousands of demobilized combatants still awaiting reintegration opportunities. The 4 April attack by Enyele insurgents in Mbandaka is a further reminder of the risks to stability elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of the Congo where institutions of State authority are weak. 84. I am concerned that bilateral support for reform of FARDC may be waning, and once again strongly urge the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its international partners to work together, with the support of MONUSCO in line with its mandate, towards making real progress in this regard. Progressively removing officers with a history of grave human rights violations from command responsibility and bringing those presumed to be implicated in the most egregious crimes before the relevant courts are essential steps in this process. I urge the Government to engage continuously and constructively with its partners in a spirit of mutual confidence on these issues, and encourage the international partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to provide support that is commensurate to the scale of the task. In addition, I encourage the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to continue their engagement in the forums facilitated by MONUSCO to harmonize security sector reform efforts. 85. I also strongly encourage both the Government and Member States to intensify their efforts to support the deployment, equipping and sustainment of basic institutions of State authority where they are most needed, particularly at the local level. In this regard, full support should be provided to the initial efforts by MONUSCO, as outlined in the present report, to build up the national police services, as requested by the Government. At the same time, I urge the Security
S/2010/512
10-56165 20
Council to give favourable consideration to authorizing MONUSCO to provide standard basic equipment to aid in the training and initial deployment of national police personnel, including military police units. 86. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has entered a new electoral dynamic. Credible elections are essential for the legitimacy of its institutions and for ensuring that the State can exercise effective stewardship over the country’s significant potential. The announcement of the electoral calendar and the promulgation of the law on the National Independent Electoral Commission have marked further progress in a process that must engage all Congolese. The Government’s commitment to shouldering an increased share of the cost of the electoral exercise is a welcome development. For its part, the Parliament should give priority to pending electoral legislation. The National Assembly has an important opportunity to signal to Congolese voters and to the international community the commitment of the country’s political leaders to democratic principles in the selection of appointees to the National Independent Electoral Commission. Practical challenges to ensuring timely and credible polls remain significant, despite the provision of limited logistical and technical support to the process by the United Nations system in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as requested by the Government. I strongly encourage the Government and the electoral authorities to ensure the timely conduct of the voter registration process. 87. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has once again reached a turning point. I believe that the challenges described in the present report indicate a need for a fundamental review of the roles played by MONUSCO, the United Nations country team and other international partners in support of the country. The joint assessments carried out by the Government and MONUSCO are an important starting point. They should be complemented by serious reflection and consultation among the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations, the country’s other regional and international partners and Congolese civil society on what is required to address the fundamental drivers of conflict that continue to plague the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and to achieve the stability necessary to allow the eventual reconfiguration of the United Nations presence. In the meantime, MONUSCO and the United Nations country team will continue their engagement with the Government for the finalization of the Integrated Strategic Framework and the peace consolidation programme for the western provinces. 88. Finally, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to all MONUSCO civilian, military and police personnel, who, under the new leadership of my Special Representative, Roger Meece, have continued to show determination and selfless dedication under very difficult conditions in support of the Congolese people. My continued appreciation goes to the countries contributing troops and police to MONUSCO and to their uniformed personnel, some of whose lives were tragically lost in recent months and several of whom have returned home following their countries’ invaluable commitment to serve in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would like also to acknowledge the work of the United Nations country team and the humanitarian community, who continue to work to save lives under difficult conditions, as well as donor countries and multilateral and non-governmental organizations that are providing much-needed support in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
S/2010/512
United Nations  S/2010/512
Security Council  Distr.: General 8 October 2010 Original: English
10-56165 (E)    121010 *1056165*
Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
I. Introduction
1. The present report is submitted pursuant to resolution 1925 (2010) of 28 May 2010, by which the Security Council extended the mandate of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) until 30 June; decided that, from 1 July, the Mission should bear the title United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO); and extended the mandate of MONUSCO until 30 June 2011. In the resolution, the Council also requested, in paragraph 20, that I report, by 11 October, on the progress on the ground, in particular with respect to the assessment conducted jointly with the Congolese authorities regarding progress on implementation of the objectives set out in paragraph 6 of the resolution. The report covers developments since my report of 30 March 2010 (S/2010/164).
II. Major developments
2. On 30 June, the Democratic Republic of the Congo celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of its independence. The State celebrations in Kinshasa were attended by a number of heads of State, including those of Rwanda, Uganda and South Africa, as well as of Belgium. I attended the celebrations at the invitation of President Joseph Kabila. In his message to the nation, President Kabila declared that the fiftieth anniversary marked a “new departure” for the Democratic Republic of the Congo. While citing significant progress, including with regard to the restoration of peace in the country and with its neighbours, the President also acknowledged shortcomings in the areas of development, social progress and human rights, and noted that the country had several remaining challenges to overcome. 3. Most of the country was relatively stable during the reporting period. However, violence by armed groups and military operations by the Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) against those groups continued, notably in the provinces of North and South Kivu and Orientale. Serious human rights violations by the armed groups and national security elements also continued, and alliances continued or were forged among the armed groups. Enyele insurgents attacked the provincial capital of Equateur, and a significant number of those
S/2010/512
10-56165 2
displaced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to the neighbouring countries of the Congo and the Central African Republic since October 2009 remained reluctant to return. 4. The announcement of the electoral calendar by the Independent Electoral Commission led to intensified efforts and growing expectations relating to elections, although significant logistical and financial challenges remain. On 1 July, the Democratic Republic of the Congo reached the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion point, effectively cancelling some $12.3 billion of external debt.
North and South Kivu
5. In the Kivus, FARDC continued operations against the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR). Some of those operations received support from MONUSCO, in accordance with the joint operational directive for Operation Amani Leo and the MONUSCO conditionality policy (see S/2009/623, paras. 12 and 13). In a meeting held in Kisangani from 26 to 28 July, the FARDC Chief of Defence Staff and the MONUSCO Force Commander determined that the military operations had further reduced the operational capability of FDLR since the end of March. Operation Amani Leo was also extended, with the aim of increasing the emphasis on targeted operations. 6. Military pressure continued to contribute to FDLR desertions and voluntary participation in the MONUSCO disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration process. Since military operations began in January 2009, 5,238 FDLR elements have been repatriated to Rwanda, including 2,266 former combatants and 2,972 dependants. In addition, the repatriation of some 22,230 Rwandan civilians was facilitated by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 7. However, FARDC continued to face difficulties in holding ground, and several areas in Masisi, Rutshuru, Walikale, Shabunda and Mwenga territories were reoccupied by FDLR. There have also been reports of new recruitment by FDLR. In addition, the security situation deteriorated in several zones in the Kivus as FDLR attacks against civilians increased, and loose alliances of FDLR, Mayi-Mayi and other Congolese armed group elements targeted civilians. Human rights violations were also perpetrated by elements of the security forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 8. Among the most serious incidents, as confirmed by the findings of a MONUSCO human rights investigation team, which were issued in a report on 24 September, was the systematic rape of at least 303 people in 13 villages on the Mpofi-Kibua axis in Walikale territory between 30 July and 2 August by FDLR and Mayi-Mayi Cheka elements. At least 923 houses and 42 shops were also looted, and 116 civilians were abducted and subjected to forced labour by the assailants. Partial reports of the attacks did not reach MONUSCO until several days after they had begun, and MONUSCO patrols and protection mechanisms in this case were unable to detect the gravity of the situation, prompting widespread criticism of the Mission’s perceived failure to protect civilians. FARDC units based in the area had been redeployed some two months prior to the attack. 9. Between 28 August and 2 September, I dispatched the Assistant Secretary- General for Peacekeeping Operations, Atul Khare, to the Democratic Republic of
S/2010/512
3 10-56165
the Congo to assess, together with MONUSCO senior leadership, the challenges faced by MONUSCO with regard to the protection of civilians despite the innovative measures introduced since January 2009 to reduce the risk of such incidents and improve the effectiveness of the Mission’s response. In a briefing by Mr. Khare to the Security Council on 8 September, a number of recommendations were made aimed at enhancing the protection of civilians alongside ongoing efforts to implement the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (see my report of 4 December 2009 (S/2009/623)), which are outlined in paragraphs 34 and 35 below. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo also announced the establishment of a commission tasked with bringing the perpetrators to justice, which is expected to visit Walikale early in October. MONUSCO and the United Nations system in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are extending the required support to the Commission. 10. On 1 September, MONUSCO launched Operation Shop Window, which is aimed at putting pressure on the armed groups, improving the protection of local populations, reinforcing contact with local populations, preventing armed groups from pursuing their operations and supporting the Government in its efforts to capture the perpetrators of the attacks in the areas where the attacks of 30 July to 2 August occurred. Some 750 MONUSCO troops were redeployed to Pinga, Kibua and Walikale in North Kivu to conduct the military operations, which were additional to those undertaken by MONUSCO temporary and company operating bases in the area. The operation was completed on 18 September, resulting in the surrender of 27 Mayi-Mayi elements and the arrest of three Mayi-Mayi elements and one FDLR element. On 5 October, “Lieutenant Colonel” Mayele was arrested in the Walikale area, following a joint FARDC-MONUSCO operation conducted in close coordination with the Democratic Republic of the Congo Military Auditor of the Operational Military Court. Mayele, the “chief of staff” of the Mayi-Mayi Cheka group, is alleged to have coordinated the series of attacks in Walikale territory of 30 July-2 August, along with FDLR elements led by “Colonel” Serafim. 11. A number of other attacks were also reported in Walikale territory, North Kivu, where rich mineral deposits and illicit trade have made it a zone of intense rivalry among armed groups and undisciplined FARDC units. On 24 July, FDLR and Mayi- Mayi elements attacked the Kilambo airstrip, taking hostages and killing or injuring both FARDC elements and civilians. The hostages were released on 1 August following successful negotiations by local authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, supported by MONUSCO. The preliminary results of a MONUSCO human rights investigation found that on 16 and 17 August, a group of FDLR and Mayi-Mayi Cheka had carried out an attack on the village of Mubi during which at least 40 women and girls were victims of sexual violence. Fifty civilians were also kidnapped and made to transport looted goods, but were released on 25 August. On 1 September, a coalition of FDLR and Mayi-Mayi again attacked the airstrip of Kilambo, abducting two pilots, who were released on 23 September. MONUSCO launched an immediate investigation into reports that on 19 September, a FARDC special commando unit comprising 450 men may have looted several villages on the Pinga-Kibua axis, raping several women and injuring or killing a number of civilians. 12. In a very serious attack against the Mission, on 18 August three United Nations peacekeepers were killed by unidentified assailants in a night-time raid on a MONUSCO company operating base at Kirumba, in North Kivu. MONUSCO has
S/2010/512
10-56165 4
taken additional force protection measures and launched a full investigation into the events surrounding the attack. On 27 August, five suspects who had been arrested as a result of the investigation carried out by the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo into the attack were transferred to Goma with the assistance of MONUSCO. 13. In South Kivu, MONUSCO dispatched Joint Protection Team missions and/or human rights investigation teams to look into several reported attacks against civilians by armed groups and national security elements in Shabunda and Mwenga territories. On 31 August, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs of the Secretariat cited information gathered in health centres by the territorial commission against sexual violence, reporting some 214 cases of rape in Shabunda territory and 74 in Mwenga territory in July and August. Also in South Kivu, with MONUSCO support, the South Kivu Military Prosecutor opened an investigation into reports that 10 women had been raped on 17 August by FARDC elements in Katalukulu, in Fizi territory. 14. Against that backdrop, the implementation of the 23 March 2009 Agreements came to a near-standstill. Signatories, most notably the Congrès national pour la défense du peuple (CNDP), continued to express concern regarding the lack of integration of their civilian representatives into the country’s governance institutions at various levels, although several CNDP political representatives have been absorbed into local administration positions in North Kivu. Signatories also expressed concern regarding the delays in the implementation of the decisions of the commission on military ranks, which completed its work in January 2009. 15. The Minister of Defence confirmed the Government’s agreement to further extend the integration of the Congolese armed groups into FARDC. A first group was processed at Kituku, North Kivu (see para. 53 below), but further progress has been halted owing to a shortage of funds. In addition, the completion by FARDC of the biometrical registration of recently integrated elements — a programme supported by the European Union Mission of Assistance for Security Reform in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (EUSEC) — which is a requirement for soldiers to receive their salary payments, remained pending. Ambiguity persisted with respect to the commitments made by “General” La Fontaine, the leader of the Mayi- Mayi Patriotes résistants congolais, to complete the integration of his combatants, while “General” Janvier Buingo Karairi continued to resist the integration of the Mayi-Mayi Alliance des patriotes pour un Congo libre et souverain (APCLS). However, on 29 June, the leader of the Forces patriotique pour la libération du Congo (FPLC), Gad Ngabo, was arrested in Uganda. 16. On 9 September, President Kabila called for the integration of the remaining Congolese armed groups and announced a ban on the mining, processing and marketing of minerals in North Kivu, South Kivu and Maniema provinces in an effort to curb illegal mining activities.
Operation Rwenzori
17. On 25 June, in the wake of growing concerns in Uganda about the Allied Democratic Forces/National Army for the Liberation of Uganda (ADF-NALU), a Ugandan armed group primarily based in Beni territory, North Kivu, and following consultations between the military authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda, FARDC launched unilateral operations, known as Operation
S/2010/512
5 10-56165
Rwenzori, against the group. The military operations resulted in the temporary displacement of up to 100,000 civilians in Beni territory, some of whom have since returned. Reports also indicated an increase in human rights violations by some FARDC elements in the area, including the use of forced labour to transport items for FARDC, extortion and arbitrary arrests. 18. On 3 September, FARDC launched the second phase of the operation. On 9 September, FARDC reported that it had regained control of the areas of Makembi and Chuchubo. The MONUSCO presence in the area is limited to a battalion headquarters and a company in Beni, and a military position in Eringeti.
Orientale province
19. In Orientale province, FARDC continued Operation Rudia II against the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), alongside the separate Uganda People’s Defence Forces military operations, which extended into the Central African Republic and southern Sudan. MONUSCO continued to provide support to FARDC operations and to contribute to the protection of civilians against LRA attacks. On 2 June, the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General and Heads of the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in the Central African Republic, the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United Nations Mission in the Sudan, as well as a senior representative of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, met in Entebbe to discuss the regional threat posed by, and coordinate efforts against, LRA. Participants agreed to enhance cooperation and information-sharing, including through the establishment of LRA focal points in each mission and of an inter-mission coordination cell on the LRA within MONUSCO. 20. On 27 July, in Kisangani, the Chiefs of Defence Staff of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda and the Central African Republic met with the MONUSCO Force Commander and agreed to set up a joint intelligence and operations centre to coordinate operations against LRA in Dungu; the centre is currently being established. MONUSCO continued to maintain company and temporary operating bases at Faradje, Dungu, Duru, Niangara, Ngilima and Bangadi, in Haut-Uélé. In Bas-Uélé, MONUSCO transferred security responsibilities to the FARDC unit in the territory, which receives logistical support from the Mission, and closed its base at Dingila. However, plans are under way to establish a MONUSCO presence elsewhere in the territory. Meanwhile, LRA attacks against civilians have continued, with an increasing number reported in remote areas in Bas-Uélé. Human rights violations by FARDC elements were also reported, notably in the areas of Bangadi and Ngilima, in Haut-Uélé. 21. In Ituri district, the MONUSCO-supported FARDC Operation Iron Stone dislodged the Front de résistance patriotique d’Ituri (FRPI) and the Front populaire pour la justice au Congo (FPJC) from their bases at Apa, Kule and Oku in southern Irumu territory. On 1 September, a leader of FPJC, Sharif Manda, was arrested in Uganda and transferred to the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. However, Justin Wanaloki, also known as Cobra Matata, who had left FRPI and integrated into FARDC, deserted in early June and reportedly began recruiting and reorganizing a militia group in southern Ituri.
S/2010/512
10-56165 6
Equateur province
22. On 4 and 5 April, some 100 armed elements of an Enyele insurgent group attacked Mbandaka, including the Governor’s residence and the airport. The airport was retaken and order restored by 6 April following coordinated operations by FARDC and MONUC. A United Nations peacekeeper and two civilian contractors associated with MONUC were killed during the attack. MONUC reinforced its presence by temporarily redeploying some 110 troops to Equateur while providing limited support to FARDC. 23. Following the attack of 4 and 5 April, on 5 May the group’s leader, Udjani Mangbama, reportedly surrendered in Mombendzélé, Congo. Mangbama is being held under house arrest in Oio, also in the Congo. On 2 July, Udjani’s father, Ibrahim Mangbama, who is reported to be the spiritual leader of the Enyele, was arrested by FARDC at Bomongo. On 3 July, he was transported by MONUSCO to Kinshasa, where he is awaiting trial. Separately, on 18 May, following investigations, 36 suspected Enyele elements were arrested and 11 were sentenced in Mbandaka in connection with the attack of 4 and 5 April. A MONUSCO human rights investigation also found that some elements of the Congolese security forces were responsible for human rights violations during and in the aftermath of the attack. Although the situation has largely stabilized, some Enyele insurgent activity reportedly continued in the rural areas near Enyele, Imesse and Dongo, in Equateur province. 24. On 10 June, a tripartite agreement was signed between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Congo and UNHCR on the voluntary repatriation of some 120,000 refugees who have been in the Congo since October 2009.
Institutions of Government and Parliament
25. During the ordinary parliamentary session held from 15 March to 15 June, 34 bills were considered and 15 laws adopted, including legislation on public procurement, the agricultural code, and the statute of magistrates, as well as the law criminalizing torture. Legislative progress with respect to security sector reform was limited to the passing of the statute on military personnel and FARDC. Other important laws, including those relating to the electoral process, constitutional amendments and decentralization, were not presented to the Parliament during the session. The following ordinary session of the Parliament opened on 15 September. 26. On 14 May, some members of the ruling Alliance de la majorité présidentielle (AMP) coalition issued a political charter aimed at creating a “liberal” aisle within the group, which was subsequently withdrawn on 29 May. Also on 14 May, the opposition Mouvement de libération du Congo (MLC) tabled a no-confidence motion against the Prime Minister, Adolphe Muzito, which was withdrawn on 19 May. 27. On 28 July, President Kabila promulgated the law on the National Independent Electoral Commission, which had been adopted by the National Assembly. Under the law, the National Assembly will nominate seven members of the Commission, four from AMP and three from the opposition. 28. At the provincial level, divergences between the legislative and executive branches of local government continued in North Kivu, Equateur, Katanga and Kasaï Occidental provinces. In addition, on 16 and 19 April, respectively, the Governors of Maniema and South Kivu provinces resigned following differences between them and their respective provincial assemblies. On 12 June, AMP
S/2010/512
7 10-56165
candidates Marcellin Cishambo and Pascal Tutu won the special gubernatorial elections in South Kivu and Maniema provinces, respectively.
Economic situation
29. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth was expected to rise to 6.1 per cent in the first trimester of 2010, more than double that achieved during the same period in 2009. Economic growth remained largely dependent on the mining sector, fuelled by increased output in the country’s main export minerals, including copper and cobalt, as commodity prices regained value lost in 2009. As noted in paragraph 4 of the present report, the Democratic Republic of the Congo also successfully achieved the HIPC completion point. However, the country continued to face a poor investment climate, ranking 182 out of 183 economies in the 2010 “Doing Business” report of the World Bank. In addition, the payment of civil-servant salaries continued to face delays.
Humanitarian situation
30. An estimated 1.97 million people remained internally displaced at the end of August in North and South Kivu, Orientale, Katanga and Equateur provinces, 1.5 million of whom are in the Kivus. The number of displaced persons increased by approximately 9,000 to 263,000 in the Uélés as a result of LRA activity, with Bas- Uélé remaining particularly vulnerable owing to insecurity and lack of infrastructure. A total of 120 security incidents affecting humanitarian organizations were reported during the first half of 2010, double the number during the same period in 2009. Insecurity further prevented humanitarian agencies from carrying out comprehensive needs evaluations and providing assistance to affected populations in certain remote areas.
Regional developments
31. On 1 and 2 April, the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) convened a meeting in Kinshasa of the Presidents of the parliaments of Burundi, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to discuss peace, security, cooperation and economic development issues. A formal declaration issued following the meeting noted the contribution of CEPGL to enhancing relations between the member countries and announced the re-establishment of several principal organs of CEPGL. 32. On 14 and 15 June, the President of Burundi, Pierre Nkurunziza, visited Kinshasa to discuss the establishment of closer economic, trade and diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The establishment of a Burundian consulate in Bukavu and a Democratic Republic of the Congo consulate in Bujumbura was agreed. From 19 to 21 August, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo participated as an observer in a meeting of the East African Community in Nairobi. On 6 September, President Kabila attended the inauguration of the President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, following his re-election in elections conducted on 9 August. Relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola remained intermittently strained as a result of their ongoing maritime border dispute and the periodic expulsion of nationals of both countries. On 21 September, President Kabila met with the President of Angola, José Eduardo dos Santos, in Luanda to discuss bilateral matters and issues relating to the Great Lakes region.
S/2010/512
10-56165 8
III. Progress towards the achievement of the mandate of MONUSCO
Protection of civilians
33. Protecting civilians remained the first priority and primary challenge for MONUSCO. MONUSCO designated an additional 47 staff from relevant components to participate in Joint Protection Teams, which enabled the Mission to field 47 Joint Protection Team missions since my previous report. Through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), funding was also secured from the Government of the United States of America for 10 international human rights staff to support the Joint Protection Teams in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition, MONUSCO began to establish provincial-level senior management groups for protection in North and South Kivu, with the aim of enhancing early-warning capabilities and monitoring of the implementation of Joint Protection Team recommendations. These measures complemented the deployment of 46 community liaison interpreters in 35 strategic temporary and company operating bases in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO also supported the establishment of early warning centres in remote areas, in partnership with humanitarian non-governmental organizations assisting vulnerable communities in those areas. 34. Despite continued progress in implementing these and other innovative measures developed under the rubric of the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, MONUSCO faced serious challenges in the implementation of its protection mandate during the reporting period. Following the attacks of 30 July to 2 August by FDLR and Mayi- Mayi Cheka elements in Walikale territory (see para. 8), the Mission, in addition to increasing its usual routine activities (evening and night patrols, random and spot- check patrols and systematic interaction with the population), initiated proactive measures such as Operation Shop Window to deal with the causes of insecurity in the area (see para. 10 above). 35. In addition to installing additional high-frequency transmitters in the Luvungi area, which was at the centre of the attacks of 30 July to 2 August, MONUSCO is exploring ways of improving radio communications and the possible use of mobile phones in areas where civilian protection is a particular concern.
Sexual violence
36. The high incidence of rape and other acts of sexual violence throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo remained a matter of serious concern. In particular, armed groups and elements of the security forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo continued to commit acts of sexual violence, several of which are outlined in paragraphs 8, 11 and 13 of the present report. 37. On 24 August, I requested my Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Ms. Margot Wallström, to work with MONUSCO senior leadership and the United Nations country team in coordinating the United Nations response and follow-up to the 30 July-2 August attack. She has called for an examination of the nexus between the presence of armed groups and high levels of violence against civilians, and women in particular; the use of new indicators to detect risk and report sexual violence, such as movements of armed groups and pillaging; and
S/2010/512
9 10-56165
increased support for the implementation of the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy to Combat Sexual Violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has been incorporated into the national strategy to combat gender-based violence. She also proposed to engage with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to enhance efforts to strengthen the rule of law, in particular with respect to ending impunity for sexual violence, including through the provision of support for Government initiatives by MONUSCO and the possible deployment of the team of experts called for by the Security Council in its resolution 1888 (2009). In addition, the Special Representative visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo for a second time from 28 September to 6 October following a preparatory visit by a staff member from her Office to accompany Assistant Secretary-General Khare. Her mission was to, inter alia, support efforts to ensure that the needs of victims are addressed, focus on holding perpetrators accountable and identify opportunities to further strengthen United Nations action to address sexual violence. The Special Representative had conducted an initial familiarization visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 12 to 19 April, during which she met with key Government authorities, national military and police forces, civil society activists, and prominent medical and legal clinics working to bring an end to sexual violence in the country. 38. With regard to the five FARDC officers suspected of serious human rights violations and whose cases were raised with President Kabila during the visit by the Security Council mission in May 2009, three are in detention. Formal requests for assistance were sent with respect to their cases by the Military Attorney-General of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the relevant prosecutor’s offices, and investigations are proceeding. With respect to the two remaining FARDC officers who are at large, one has been located in Equateur Province, where he continues to serve as a battalion commander, despite the fact that the Chief of Defence Staff of FARDC had sent a letter dated 14 June to the FARDC Commander in Equateur requesting that he be made available to the Military Prosecutor. The whereabouts of the fifth individual are unknown. 39.  MONUSCO and the United Nations country team continued to work closely with the Ministry of Gender, Family and Children in coordinating the implementation of the national strategy on sexual and gender-based violence. On 15 June, the funding board of the Stabilization and Recovery Funding Facility approved an initial allocation of $5 million to support the implementation of the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy to Combat Sexual Violence. In August, programmes were launched in Ituri and South Kivu that provide medical and psychological assistance to more than 4,000 victims of sexual violence, as well as sensitization programmes for the Police nationale congolaise, local authorities and civil society groups. In addition, funding was secured to extend the implementation of the MONUSCO access to justice programme for victims of sexual violence to Bas-Congo, Bandundu, Kasaï Occidental, Kasaï Oriental, Katanga and Kinshasa. The Government of the United States also pledged $100,000 to MONUSCO for victim, witness and judicial personnel protection activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 40. MONUSCO began development of a database to compile information on reported acts of sexual violence. In addition, the Mission continued to support the efforts of the United Nations Population Fund to improve programme effectiveness indicators and data collection on sexual violence.
S/2010/512
10-56165 10
Children and armed conflict
41. The re-recruitment of children by armed groups and FARDC continued during the reporting period. Most of the children who had been separated or escaped from armed groups or FARDC reported to MONUSCO that they had been re-recruited several times by armed elements. Since March, MONUSCO facilitated the release or escape of 868 children from the national security forces and armed groups, primarily in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and handed them over to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and child-protection actors for protection and reintegration. On 7 July, MONUSCO and UNICEF facilitated the release of 24 minors who had been illegally detained by FARDC in Equateur since April owing to their alleged association with the Enyele insurgency.
Human rights
42. As indicated in section II of the present report, serious human rights violations by armed groups and by elements of the national security forces continued, including acts of arbitrary execution; rape; arbitrary arrest and detention; torture; cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment; and looting. While the most frequent and serious human rights violations continued to take place in the eastern provinces, the situation also remained of concern in some areas in western Democratic Republic of the Congo. 43. On 2 June, Floribert Chebeya Bahizire, Executive Secretary of the Réseau national des ONG des droits de l’homme de la République démocratique du Congo and President of the Congolese non-governmental organization Voix des Sans Voix pour les droits de l’homme, was killed after having been summoned the day before by the Police Inspector General, John Numbi. His driver, Fidèle Bazana Edadi, is still missing. The incident prompted widespread condemnation by the international partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, accompanied by calls for the Government to conduct a transparent investigation into the incident and bring the perpetrators to justice. On 6 June, the Government announced the suspension of Inspector General Numbi. In addition, six Police nationale congolaise elements were detained at Makala prison in Kinshasa in connection with the case. On 8 July, a joint Dutch and Congolese forensic team reported that Mr. Chebeya’s autopsy was inconclusive and that it could not determine with certainty the cause of death. 44. A number of human rights violations targeting civil society activists were also reported in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 30 June, a human rights defender working for the non-governmental organization Le Bon Samaritain was killed by armed elements in military uniform near the town of Beni, North Kivu. On 24 August, the President of Masisi civil society was abducted in Goma by unidentified armed men. He was found on 30 August in poor health and displaying visible signs of mistreatment. The ill-treatment allegedly followed his co-signing of a letter calling for the redeployment of former CNDP FARDC troops responsible for human rights violations. Another civil society activist was abducted on 27 August by unidentified armed men and subsequently released on 1 September near Goma. These deaths and cases of mistreatment aggravated the climate of fear among members of the human rights non-governmental organizations, who are on a regular basis the victims of threats, harassment and other violations of their rights throughout the country.
S/2010/512
11 10-56165
45. On 1 October, the High Commissioner for Human Rights issued the report of a mapping exercise documenting serious human rights violations committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 1993 and 2003. The report describes more than 600 incidents that took place in the country over the 10-year period, including those allegedly committed by foreign and Congolese forces and other armed groups. The report also identifies options for addressing impunity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including judicial mechanisms, truth-seeking, institutional reform and vetting, and reparations for victims.
Implementation of the MONUSCO conditionality policy
46. At the request of FARDC, MONUSCO screened and cleared a number of battalions in North Kivu tasked with holding areas from which FDLR and residual armed groups have been dislodged in the context of Operation Amani Leo. Using existing resources, MONUSCO will extend logistical support to the “hold” units for an initial period of three months. 47. On 8 June, MONUSCO suspended its support to the FARDC 911th, or “Ours”, battalion in Orientale province owing to the serious and persistent human rights violations committed by some of its elements. Subsequently, MONUSCO was informed that six officers of the 911th battalion had been arrested and transferred to the relevant judicial authorities. 48. In accordance with paragraphs 23 and 41 (b) of Security Council resolution 1906 (2009), from 2 to 12 May an inter-agency mission visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo to assess the implementation by MONUC of the conditionality policy. The mission was led by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and included representatives from the Department of Field Support, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of Legal Affairs, OHCHR, the Office of Military Affairs of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UNHCR. 49. The mission concluded that MONUC had made significant efforts to incorporate the conditionality policy into its overall protection efforts, but that serious challenges remained. MONUC had established screening procedures, primarily based on the human rights records of known commanders, in order to determine the eligibility of FARDC units to receive United Nations operational support. The mission had also made a good-faith effort to establish mechanisms and procedures for monitoring the behaviour of those FARDC units in the field that were receiving support from MONUC, and for interceding with the FARDC command where there was evidence of abuse of civilians by FARDC personnel. 50. The inter-agency mission nonetheless noted a number of areas in which MONUC faced challenges in implementing the policy, notably in the adequate screening and monitoring of the behaviour of FARDC units receiving support; in terms of communications regarding the policy, both internally and with Democratic Republic of the Congo stakeholders; and in applying the policy consistently across the country. The mission also found that it was not possible at this stage to demonstrate whether the conditionality policy was having an impact on FARDC behaviour, which is a central objective. While FARDC, for its part, acknowledged the conditionality policy and welcomed MONUC support, some senior Commanders expressed the view that the related procedures were cumbersome and hindered the progress of military operations.
S/2010/512
10-56165 12
Illegal exploitation of natural resources
51. MONUSCO continued to support the Ministry of Mining of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the establishment of mineral trading counters in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The first counter has been constructed in Mubi, Walikale territory, and awaits the deployment of administrative and Police nationale congolaise staff who are in the process of being trained. On the basis of illicit trade patterns, additional counters are being built in Itebero and Rubaya, in North Kivu, and in Mugogo and Numbi, in South Kivu. The construction of the mineral trading counters in Mubi, Itebero and Numbi will deal predominantly with metals and minerals produced in Walikale. Combined with the mining ban announced by President Kabila (see para. 16), the trading counters aim to increase the transparency and legality of the mineral trade.
Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration/disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration
52. Between January and September, 829 foreign combatants and 811 dependants were repatriated — less than half the number repatriated during the same period in 2009 — of whom 733 were FDLR combatants and 18 LRA combatants. However, the number of Congolese FDLR elements who reported to MONUSCO in the context of the disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration programme during the same period rose from 216 in the first seven months of 2009 to 390 in the same period in 2010; 285 of them were children. 53. On 24 June, a new disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme was authorized by the Congolese Minister of Defence to address the issue of residual Congolese combatants, 4,000 of whom MONUSCO and its partners estimate remain active in the Kivus and Maniema. Of these, approximately 1,000 are Congolese members of FDLR and ADF. MONUSCO assisted in the disengagement process of residual Congolese armed combatants at the Kituku regroupment centre, 82 per cent of whom chose to demobilize.
Security sector reform
54. MONUSCO continued its mandated efforts to support the harmonization of security sector reform. The Mission convened an ambassadors’ forum and working group meetings on security sector reform, which have included the participation of officials of the Democratic Republic of the Congo representing the Ministries of Defence and of the Interior as well as the Office of the National Security Adviser to the President. The Mission also continued to encourage the Government to develop a viable national security sector reform strategy and provided support to the national authorities by developing tools to facilitate information-sharing among security sector reform stakeholders.
Army reform
55. Progress on reform of FARDC was largely stalled during the reporting period. Several bilateral training programmes supporting the implementation of the army reform plan were stalled or completed, while the continuation of others was in question. In addition, the three draft laws on army reform have yet to be adopted by the Parliament. In the absence of a legal framework, there continued to be a lack of coherent FARDC training doctrine. However, some progress was made in the
S/2010/512
13 10-56165
building of barracks for FARDC in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including in Kindu, and in the refurbishing of some barracks in South Kivu. 56. The Government had also requested support with respect to equipping three military police battalions to be trained by Congolese trainers, which the Security Council also did not authorize MONUSCO to provide. With funding from bilateral partners and facilitation from MONUSCO, the International Organization for Migration is leading efforts to refurbish the Lokosa camp in Kisangani, which national authorities have indicated would be used for the training of a military police battalion that would be deployed to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Police reform
57. Following the request by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for MONUSCO to train and provide basic equipment for the build-up of police battalions (see S/2010/164, para. 108), the Security Council, in its resolution 1925 (2010), did not authorize MONUSCO to provide the equipment requested by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO therefore worked with the authorities of the country on a project to develop a national training capacity and a training programme that will provide six months of intensive training on police functions for 1,500 police personnel. The curriculum was developed jointly by MONUSCO and the Government. The training programme includes three programme components, one of which is being funded with the support of the Japan International Cooperation Agency. On 21 September, the training of an initial 500 personnel began at the Kapalata training centre, which was refurbished by MONUSCO. Two similar courses are expected to begin by the end of the year at additional training sites, also refurbished by MONUSCO. 58. In addition to these efforts, MONUSCO continued to support the executive secretariat of the steering committee for police reform and, in cooperation with the European Union Police Mission in Kinshasa, reform of the coordinating and implementing body for the General Inspectorate for the Police nationale congolaise.
Rule of law
59. As mandated by the Security Council in paragraph 12 (o) of its resolution 1925 (2010), MONUSCO, UNDP and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in close consultation with the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, initiated the development of a multi-year (2010-2012) joint United Nations justice support programme focused on developing the criminal justice chain, the police, the judiciary and prisons in conflict-affected areas and strategic programmatic support at the central level in Kinshasa. A preliminary draft outlining five institutional pillars, namely, judicial police; access to justice; integrity, transparency and judicial practice; prison administration; and anti-corruption, was completed in August. 60. MONUSCO continued to provide support to civilian and military prosecutors in the process of investigating and obtaining redress for human rights violations and combating impunity. In that connection, MONUSCO is establishing an initial capacity for the prosecution support cells and supported the efforts made by the authorities of the country to reinforce key military justice infrastructure in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. MONUSCO also worked in support of the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to develop an increased capacity for cooperation with the International Criminal Court. However, serious
S/2010/512
10-56165 14
obstacles to the administration of justice remained. On 12 August, former CNDP elements integrated into FARDC forcibly freed a former commander from the Goma Military Prosecutor’s office, who had been arrested for refusing to be redeployed from Walikale territory following accusations of human rights violations by FARDC elements under his command.
Corrections
61. With MONUSCO support, the reconstruction of the Ndolo military prison in Kinshasa was completed, and plans to make the prison operational were finalized. At the Goma Central Prison, construction of a structure designed to separate juveniles and women neared completion. However, despite those efforts, prison conditions throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular in conflict-affected areas, remained dire.
Elections
62. On 9 August, the Independent Electoral Commission published a new electoral calendar in which first-round presidential and national legislative elections are set to be conducted on 27 November 2011. If a second presidential round is required, it would be held together with the provincial legislative elections on 26 February 2012. Senatorial and gubernatorial elections would be held in 2012 and local elections in 2013. Several opposition representatives criticized the fact that the first round of presidential elections is scheduled to take place just nine days before the end of President Kabila’s current constitutional mandate, on 6 December 2011. The Constitution specifies that presidential elections should be held 90 days before the expiry of the presidential mandate. An eventual second round would be held after it expires. 63. On 5 June, Prime Minister Muzito formally requested United Nations technical and logistical assistance for the voter registration process, and the general and local elections. Subsequently, an electoral needs assessment mission visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 26 July to 10 August, led by the Department of Political Affairs and composed of representatives from the Department of Field Support, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and UNDP, which reviewed the status of preparations for the elections with the United Nations system, national authorities and international stakeholders. It recommended that MONUSCO and the international community provide increased support, including financial and logistical support, to the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and identified benchmarks, including appropriate time frames for the successful conduct of the polls. The needs assessment mission also recommended a gradual transfer of lead responsibility from MONUSCO to UNDP with respect to electoral assistance upon completion of the general elections, and provided recommendations regarding logistical support for the carrying out of the voter registration process by MONUSCO. Subsequently, MONUSCO submitted a supplementary budget of $40.6 million for logistical and technical support for the elections. 64. The current estimated budget for the 2007-2013 electoral process is approximately $715 million. The Government has pledged to increase its financial commitment with respect to the projected costs for the elections to approximately $390 million.
S/2010/512
15 10-56165
65. While the law establishing the National Independent Electoral Commission has been promulgated, important legislation relating to the electoral process remained pending in the Parliament, as did decisions by the Executive regarding the electoral constituencies. Delays continued regarding the voter registration process, which, according to the new calendar, is now due to start in most provinces in December. It has concluded in Bas-Congo, where approximately 1.4 million voters were registered. MONUSCO is transporting voter registration material to 13 hubs and nearly 200 sub-hubs in the other provinces, and it continued to provide technical support to the electoral authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 66. The lack of regular disbursement of Government funds together with major logistical hurdles continued to pose considerable challenges in terms of the timely and credible conduct of the electoral process. Delays in the transportation of voter registration kits to the provinces would also have an impact on the electoral timeline.
Reconfiguration of MONUSCO
67. In accordance with Security Council resolution 1925 (2010) and in consultation with the Government, MONUSCO has completed the withdrawal of 1,494 troops. The withdrawal included the Tunisian battalion in Kinshasa, the Senegalese battalion based in Kisangani, a part of the Benin battalion from Katanga, a Uruguayan riverine unit from Ituri and Malawian and Bolivian guard units from Maniema and the Kivus. An additional 180 personnel from among those units will remain until November 2010 to monitor the withdrawal of contingent-owned equipment. The units that were withdrawn were selected with a view to limiting the impact of their departure on the operational capacity of MONUSCO and the implementation of its mandate. 68. On 16 July, the Government of India informed the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of its decision to not renew the letters of assist for 9 of the 23 military helicopters that it contributes to MONUSCO; these helicopters have since been repatriated to India. The Government of India has also indicated its intention not to renew a further four attack and six utility helicopters by March 2011 when the current letters of assist expire. The repatriation of the five utility helicopters and four attack helicopters, in addition to nearly 200 military personnel, represents a 25 per cent reduction in the MONUSCO military utility fleet and half of the Mission’s attack helicopters. The repatriation of the aircraft has already begun to have a major impact on the Mission’s mobility and operational capacity, including with respect to sustaining its temporary and company operating bases. It will also hamper the Mission’s ability to provide support to FARDC military operations in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. We have redoubled our efforts to secure pledges for the withdrawn assets, which are additional to the 14 helicopters and other air assets authorized by the Security Council in its resolution 1843 (2008) for which pledges have yet to be received. 69. As agreed with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations system in the country and the Government initiated a process to assess the progress made towards the implementation of the objectives outlined in paragraphs 6, 7 and 20 of Security Council resolution 1925 (2010). In June, a joint MONUSCO-Government working-level national team was established in Kinshasa and agreed on terms of reference and a methodology for the joint assessment process. The team is co-led by the National Security Adviser of the Democratic Republic of the
S/2010/512
10-56165 16
Congo and MONUSCO and comprises representatives of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Ministries of Defence, the Interior, Justice and Human Rights, and Foreign Affairs, and of MONUSCO and the United Nations country team. 70. Workshops were held with Democratic Republic of the Congo provincial representatives in Orientale, North and South Kivu, Maniema, Katanga and Equateur provinces so as to present the methodology and identify areas for joint field visits. In July and August, the teams visited 55 locations throughout eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and Equateur. 71. Guided by questionnaires and a number of indicators, the teams assessed the security situation, the presence and the capacity of armed groups, the capacity of the various Democratic Republic of the Congo security services to deal with the threat of such groups, the presence of State administrative services, including electoral support, and the population’s perception of the situation on the ground. The teams interviewed local government officials, customary chiefs, representatives of FARDC, the Police nationale congolaise and other security services and civil society representatives. The provincial teams were led by the provincial Ministers of the Interior and the MONUSCO heads of office. The provincial teams were composed of Congolese authorities and representatives of substantive MONUSCO sections, military observers and United Nations civilian police. In addition, the United Nations country team designated representatives of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and UNHCR to participate in the teams. 72. The findings of the provincial teams have been provided to the national team, which will produce a joint consolidated report for the consideration of the Government and the United Nations, as requested by the Security Council in paragraph 7 of its resolution 1925 (2010). The conclusions reached will be reflected in my next report to the Security Council.
MONUSCO and United Nations country team stabilization and peacebuilding efforts
73. Within the framework of the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in support of the Government’s Stabilization and Reconstruction Plan for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo programme, 22 police stations, two judicial courts, one prison and five local administrative offices have been constructed along priority axes in the Kivus. The rehabilitation of roads and bridges on priority axes, namely, Rutshuru-Ishasha, Baraka-Fizi, and Bunia-Boga, in the Kivus, has been completed. 74. On 14 July, in a meeting of the funding board of the Stabilization and Recover Funding facility co-chaired by Prime Minister Muzito, four projects were recommended for approval for funding by the Peacebuilding Fund, focusing on enhancing the capacity of the provincial technical commission for pacification and reconciliation and the local conciliation committees in working on mitigating conflicts linked to the return of refugees and internally displaced persons in North Kivu, and in support of the extension of State authority, emergency road rehabilitation and the deployment of police. The Peacebuilding Fund has committed $13.9 million for these initiatives from its total allocation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo of $20 million. A total of $183 million (including the Peacebuilding Fund allocation) has been provided under the framework of the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic
S/2010/512
17 10-56165
Republic of the Congo, and there is an estimated funding gap of $655 million for activities in the framework of the stabilization and reconstruction plan for areas emerging from armed conflict and of the Support Strategy. 75. In addition to the International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy for the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, as indicated in my previous report (S/2010/164), MONUSCO and the United Nations country team began the development of a peace consolidation programme. The objectives of the programme are to support the implementation of the structural reforms needed to give the Congolese State the capacity to project its authority nationwide, to strengthen the capacity of communities to respond to adverse shocks, and to provide economic opportunities to unemployed young people and other high-risk groups, as well as delivering tangible peace dividends in the western provinces. The United Nations country team is conducting a midterm review of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework, with a view to developing a revised results framework and further enhancing the alignment between the Development Assistance Framework and the draft Integrated Strategic Framework. 76. In provinces where the peace consolidation programme is to be implemented, the United Nations country team is finalizing the operational framework for the establishment of joint United Nations offices, to be led by area coordinators. MONUSCO and United Nations country team staff would be co-located in the joint offices in selected provinces and share common services and support costs. MONUSCO would continue to provide support staff to monitor and report on the political, security, military and human rights developments in the provinces, and substantive civilian staff to contribute to the implementation of the programme in areas that fall within its mandate, such as the rule of law and civil affairs.
IV. Observations
77. The present report presents a mixed portrait of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The country has made significant progress and could benefit from a number of positive developments. At the same time, persistent challenges and certain negative trends, if not addressed, could reverse the gains made. Improved economic growth, the achievement of the HIPC completion point and the increase in Government revenue since the beginning of the year are encouraging developments that have the potential to produce long-awaited peace dividends for the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Despite significant challenges, the Parliament and other democratic institutions have continued their efforts to play their constitutional roles. Most of the country remains free of armed conflict, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo is at peace with its neighbours. The consolidation of normal diplomatic relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its Great Lakes neighbours contributes to regional stability and continues to offer constructive avenues for addressing the outstanding issues and potential sources of friction, and the country has become an increasingly active participant in regional institutions. All of these factors, along with a continued engagement by the United Nations and the international community, are creating conditions conducive to the Democratic Republic of the Congo realizing the new departure hailed by President Kabila during the fiftieth anniversary celebrations of the country’s independence, on 30 June.
S/2010/512
10-56165 18
78. In this context, I welcome the decision of the Security Council to rename MONUC as MONUSCO, reflecting a new partnership between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United Nations. As authorized by the Council and in consultation with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some 1,494 troops have been withdrawn from MONUSCO. In addition, I welcome the preliminary joint work of the Government and United Nations system in the country to assess the progress made in the implementation of the objectives set out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Security Council resolution 1925 (2010). I look forward to sharing the outcomes of that process in my next report to the Security Council. 79. It is nonetheless clear that significant challenges have yet to be overcome by the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The serious acts of violence against civilians in the eastern part of the country, the continued presence of FDLR, LRA and Congolese armed groups, and the violations of human rights by some elements of FARDC described in the present report continue, owing in large part to the absence of State authority in the affected provinces, the lack of progress in building professional and effective national security and rule-of-law institutions and competition for the illegal exploitation of natural resources. These are among the fundamental issues which, if not addressed, will continue to hamper efforts to establish lasting stability in the country. It is therefore essential to address both the causes and the symptoms of instability if the Democratic Republic of the Congo is to counter the threat of armed groups, effectively protect its population and enjoy relative stability throughout the country. 80. Constructive dialogue and close collaboration between the Government and MONUSCO is critical to ensuring the protection of civilians. I urge the Government to assume its full measure of responsibility in this regard. At the same time, the atrocities perpetrated between 31 July and 2 August in the Kibua-Mpofi area of Walikale territory have demonstrated that MONUSCO must do better in its effort to protect civilians. The abominable acts of sexual violence and other human rights violations perpetrated with impunity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo compel all those with the responsibility to protect civilians to make every possible effort to prevent such terrible atrocities in future and to bring the perpetrators of such acts to justice. 81. Despite the protection afforded to many thousands of civilians, MONUSCO protection measures in the Kibua-Mpofi area need to be improved. The recommendations outlined in the present report that are aimed at improving MONUSCO efforts to protect civilians will be implemented alongside the United Nations system-wide strategy for the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the fullest extent possible. In this regard, the need for additional helicopters has been intensified by the loss of existing air assets. The United Nations will also provide all possible assistance to efforts by judicial institutions and the Government to bring perpetrators, and in particular the leaders responsible for those crimes, to justice and ensure services and reparations for victims. The team of experts established by the Security Council in its resolution 1888 (2009) can help to provide the support necessary to assist in this endeavour. 82. Overall, the security situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remains of serious concern. In the Kivus, repeated attacks against civilians by FDLR and Congolese armed groups have increased, in particular but not only in Walikale territory in North Kivu, in South Kivu, and in Bas-Uélé, in Orientale province. The
S/2010/512
19 10-56165
emergence of loose alliances of FDLR, Mayi-Mayi and other Congolese armed groups that prey on civilians risks compromising the gains made in 2009 as a result of, inter alia, improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its Great Lakes neighbours. The structural weaknesses of FARDC, which were compounded by the incomplete integration of the Congolese armed groups, including CNDP, into FARDC, have continued to create vacuums that FDLR and other armed groups exploit. At the same time, multidimensional efforts to eliminate the threat posed by armed groups have suffered from the failure to extend effective State authority, including Democratic Republic of the Congo police personnel, to maintain stability in areas cleared by military operations. I would again urge Member States, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to redouble their efforts to implement the relevant sanctions imposed by the Security Council, increase legal pressure on FDLR diaspora leaders, and dismantle criminal networks in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. If current trends are not reversed, ongoing political, military, humanitarian and recovery efforts may prove insufficient to stem the violence and dismantle the remaining foreign and Congolese armed groups. 83. Similar challenges continue in Orientale province, where brutal attacks against civilians are perpetrated by LRA in an area where there is virtually no State presence and where the resources available to FARDC and MONUSCO to secure the area are not commensurate with its size. These atrocities warrant the highest degree of commitment on the part of the Government, supported by MONUSCO, to protect vulnerable communities. The efforts made to enhance coordination among United Nations peacekeeping and special political missions in LRA-affected areas should be complemented by increased engagement on the part of States in the region and those with the capacity to assist to devise effective regional action. In Ituri, despite the progress achieved to date, there is a risk that armed groups will re-emerge, a problem that is exacerbated by the presence of thousands of demobilized combatants still awaiting reintegration opportunities. The 4 April attack by Enyele insurgents in Mbandaka is a further reminder of the risks to stability elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of the Congo where institutions of State authority are weak. 84. I am concerned that bilateral support for reform of FARDC may be waning, and once again strongly urge the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its international partners to work together, with the support of MONUSCO in line with its mandate, towards making real progress in this regard. Progressively removing officers with a history of grave human rights violations from command responsibility and bringing those presumed to be implicated in the most egregious crimes before the relevant courts are essential steps in this process. I urge the Government to engage continuously and constructively with its partners in a spirit of mutual confidence on these issues, and encourage the international partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to provide support that is commensurate to the scale of the task. In addition, I encourage the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to continue their engagement in the forums facilitated by MONUSCO to harmonize security sector reform efforts. 85. I also strongly encourage both the Government and Member States to intensify their efforts to support the deployment, equipping and sustainment of basic institutions of State authority where they are most needed, particularly at the local level. In this regard, full support should be provided to the initial efforts by MONUSCO, as outlined in the present report, to build up the national police services, as requested by the Government. At the same time, I urge the Security
S/2010/512
10-56165 20
Council to give favourable consideration to authorizing MONUSCO to provide standard basic equipment to aid in the training and initial deployment of national police personnel, including military police units. 86. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has entered a new electoral dynamic. Credible elections are essential for the legitimacy of its institutions and for ensuring that the State can exercise effective stewardship over the country’s significant potential. The announcement of the electoral calendar and the promulgation of the law on the National Independent Electoral Commission have marked further progress in a process that must engage all Congolese. The Government’s commitment to shouldering an increased share of the cost of the electoral exercise is a welcome development. For its part, the Parliament should give priority to pending electoral legislation. The National Assembly has an important opportunity to signal to Congolese voters and to the international community the commitment of the country’s political leaders to democratic principles in the selection of appointees to the National Independent Electoral Commission. Practical challenges to ensuring timely and credible polls remain significant, despite the provision of limited logistical and technical support to the process by the United Nations system in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as requested by the Government. I strongly encourage the Government and the electoral authorities to ensure the timely conduct of the voter registration process. 87. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has once again reached a turning point. I believe that the challenges described in the present report indicate a need for a fundamental review of the roles played by MONUSCO, the United Nations country team and other international partners in support of the country. The joint assessments carried out by the Government and MONUSCO are an important starting point. They should be complemented by serious reflection and consultation among the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations, the country’s other regional and international partners and Congolese civil society on what is required to address the fundamental drivers of conflict that continue to plague the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and to achieve the stability necessary to allow the eventual reconfiguration of the United Nations presence. In the meantime, MONUSCO and the United Nations country team will continue their engagement with the Government for the finalization of the Integrated Strategic Framework and the peace consolidation programme for the western provinces. 88. Finally, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to all MONUSCO civilian, military and police personnel, who, under the new leadership of my Special Representative, Roger Meece, have continued to show determination and selfless dedication under very difficult conditions in support of the Congolese people. My continued appreciation goes to the countries contributing troops and police to MONUSCO and to their uniformed personnel, some of whose lives were tragically lost in recent months and several of whom have returned home following their countries’ invaluable commitment to serve in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would like also to acknowledge the work of the United Nations country team and the humanitarian community, who continue to work to save lives under difficult conditions, as well as donor countries and multilateral and non-governmental organizations that are providing much-needed support in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
S/2010/512
21 10-56165
