EtpuGeneral Assembly Sixty-fourth session
65th plenary meeting Friday, 18 December 2010, 10 a.m. New York
Official Records
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
09-65853 (E) *0965853*
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Reports of the Third Committee
The President (spoke in Arabic): The General Assembly will consider the reports of the Third Committee on agenda items 41, 61, 62, 64 to 69, 104, 105, 118 and 133.
I request the Rapporteur of the Third Committee, Ms. Nicola Hill of New Zealand, to introduce in one intervention the reports of the Committee before the General Assembly.
Ms. Hill (New Zealand), Rapporteur of the Third Committee: Let me begin, Mr. President, by wishing you a happy new year.
I am honoured to present for the consideration of the General Assembly the following reports of the Third Committee on the agenda items allocated to it by the Assembly.
Under agenda item 41, entitled “Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 15 of document A/64/431, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 61, entitled “Social development”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 40 of document A/64/432, the adoption of seven draft resolutions and, in paragraph 41, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 62, entitled “Advancement of women”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 30 of document A/64/433, the adoption of five draft resolutions and, in paragraph 31, the adoption of two draft decisions.
Under agenda item 64, entitled “Report of the Human Rights Council”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 16 of document A/64/434, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 65, entitled “Promotion and protection of the rights of children”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 19 of document A/64/435, the adoption of two draft resolutions and, in paragraph 20, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 66, entitled “Indigenous issues”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 7 of document A/64/436, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 67, entitled “Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 26 of document A/64/437, the adoption of two draft resolutions and, in paragraph 27, the adoption of two draft decisions.
Under agenda item 68, entitled “Right of peoples to self-determination”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 19 of document A/64/438, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 69 as a whole, entitled “Promotion and protection of human rights”, the Third
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 2
Committee recommends, in paragraph 5 of document A/64/439, the adoption of one draft decision. I should also like to make a correction to the documentation listed in paragraph 3 of this report. Under item 69 as a whole, the symbol of the letter appearing under the symbol A/C.3/63/4 should be changed to A/C.3/64/4 and the title should read “Letter dated 11 November 2009 from the Permanent Representative of Uzbekistan addressed to the Secretary-General”.
Moving on to sub-item 69 (a), entitled “Implementation of human rights instruments”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 25 of document A/64/439/Add.1, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under sub-item 69 (b), entitled “Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 110 of document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II), the adoption of 20 draft resolutions. I wish to recommend to the Assembly through you, Mr. President, that operative paragraph 2 of draft resolution XIII, entitled “International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance”, be updated to reflect the number of States that have ratified or acceded to the Convention since the adoption of the draft resolution by the Third Committee on 19 November. I am advised by the Secretariat that, as of yesterday, 18 States have ratified or acceded to the Convention.
Also, it may be recalled that, at its 61st plenary meeting, on 10 December, the General Assembly adopted resolution 64/82, entitled “Follow-up to the International Year of Human Rights Learning”, which had been recommended by the Third Committee in document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part I).
Under sub-item 69 (c), entitled “Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 18 of document A/64/439/Add.3, the adoption of three draft resolutions. I understand, however, that the Assembly will defer its consideration of draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar” until such time as it has before it the pertinent report of the Fifth Committee.
Under sub-item 69 (d), entitled “Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action”, the Third
Committee, in document A/64/439/Add.4, advises the Assembly that no proposals were submitted under the sub-item.
Under agenda item 104, entitled “Crime prevention and criminal justice”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 24 of document A/64/440, the adoption of five draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 105, entitled “International drug control”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 11 of document A/64/441, the adoption of one draft resolution.
Under agenda item 118, entitled “Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 4 of document A/64/442, the adoption of one draft decision.
Finally, under agenda item 133, entitled “Programme planning”, the Third Committee, in document A/64/443, advises the Assembly that no action was required by it at this session.
I want to thank my fellow Bureau members and the members of the Secretariat, in particular Ambassador Penke and his Deputy, Kristine Maƺinovska, Zahid Rastam, Fiola Hoosen and Edgard Pérez, as well as our secretary, Moncef Khane, for their friendship and support in making this session efficient and ensuring its conclusion on time.
I respectfully commend the reports of the Third Committee to the plenary of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session for its consideration.
The President (spoke in Arabic): I thank the Rapporteur of the Third Committee.
If there is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of the Third Committee that are before the Assembly today.
It was so decided. The President (spoke in Arabic): Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of vote or position. The positions of delegations regarding the recommendations of the Third Committee have been made clear in the Committee and are reflected in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that
A/64/PV.65
3 09-65853
“When the same draft resolution is considered in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote only once, i.e., either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, unless that delegation’s vote in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote or position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats. When a report contains more than one draft resolution, delegations will have an opportunity to explain their positions before and after the General Assembly takes action on all those draft resolutions.
Before we begin to take action on the recommendations contained in the reports of the Third Committee, I should like to advise representatives that we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner as was done in the Third Committee, unless the Secretariat is notified otherwise in advance. I therefore hope that we may proceed to adopt without a vote those recommendations that were adopted without a vote in the Committee.
Before proceeding further, I would like to draw the attention of members to a note by the Secretariat, entitled “List of proposals contained in the reports of the Third Committee”, which has been circulated as document A/C.3/64/INF/1. This note has been distributed desk to desk in the General Assembly Hall as a reference guide for action on draft resolutions and decisions recommended by the Third Committee in its reports.
In this connection, members will find in column three of the note the order and numbers of the draft resolutions or decisions for action in plenary meeting, with their corresponding titles and symbols assigned in the Third Committee in column four of the same note.
Members are reminded that additional sponsors are no longer accepted now that draft resolutions and decisions have been adopted by the Committee. Any clarification about sponsorship should be addressed to the Secretary of the Third Committee.
Agenda item 41
Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/431)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 15 of its report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/127).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Enlargement of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/128).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Assistance to refugees, returnees and displaced persons in Africa”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/129).
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 41?
It was so decided. Agenda item 61
Social development
(a) Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly
(b) Social development, including questions relating to the world social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family
(c) Follow-up to the International Year of Older Persons: Second World Assembly on Ageing
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/432)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it seven draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 40 of its report and a
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 4
draft decision recommended by the Committee in paragraph 41 of the same report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to VII and on the draft decision, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Policies and programmes involving youth”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/130).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Realizing the Millennium Development Goals for persons with disabilities”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/131).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/132).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution IV is entitled “Follow-up to the tenth anniversary of the International Year of the Family and beyond”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/133).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution V is entitled “Proclamation of 2010 as International Year of Youth: Dialogue and Mutual Understanding”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/134).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution VI is entitled “Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VI without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution VI was adopted (resolution 64/135).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution VII is entitled “Cooperatives in social development”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution VII was adopted (resolution 64/136).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Delegations are now invited to turn to paragraph 41 of the report to take action on the draft decision entitled “Overview of the World Social Situation 2009”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 61 and its sub-items (a) to (c)?
It was so decided.
(a) Advancement of women
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/433)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it five draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 30 of its report and two draft decisions recommended by the Committee in paragraph 31 of the same report. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I to V and on draft decisions I and II, one by one.
We turn first to draft resolution I, entitled “Intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/137).
A/64/PV.65
5 09-65853
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/138).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Violence against women migrant workers”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/139).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution IV is entitled “Improvement of the situation of women in rural areas”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/140).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution V is entitled “Follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/141).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Delegations are invited now to turn to paragraph 31 of the report to take action on draft decisions I and II.
Draft decision I is entitled “Commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary of the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action”. The Third Committee adopted draft decision I. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to do likewise?
Draft decision I was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision II is entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the advancement of women”. The Third Committee adopted draft decision
II. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to do the same?
Draft decision II was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): I give the floor to the representative of Israel, who wishes to make a statement in explanation of position on the decisions just taken.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): It is fitting that this morning the General Assembly has adopted a resolution reaffirming the principles enshrined in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women which, itself, was adopted by the Assembly 30 years ago this very day. The State of Israel would like to take this opportunity to voice its complete support for the resolution on the Convention (resolution 64/138) and to restate its commitment to the ideals and actions the Convention promotes.
While all States, including my own, have their unique challenges in ensuring the equality of rights and respect for the human dignity of women, the Convention sets the universal standard: there can be no distinction on the basis of gender in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field. Israel is fully committed to implementing that principle and would like to join other delegations in marking today’s anniversary.
Finally, my delegation would like the record to reflect that Israel had intended to join in sponsoring draft resolution A/C.3/64/L.17 during action in the Third Committee, as it has done in the past, but was unable to do so owing to technical reasons.
The President (spoke in Arabic): The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 62 and its sub-items (a) and (b).
Agenda item 64 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/434)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 16 of its report. We will now take action on the three draft resolutions, one by one.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 6
Draft resolution I is entitled “Guidelines for the Alternative Care of Children”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/142).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Report of the Human Rights Council”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/143).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Office of the President of the Human Rights Council”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/144).
The President (spoke in Arabic): I give the floor to the representative of Israel, who wishes to speak in explanation of position on the resolutions just adopted.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): Israel has growing concerns about a significant part of the working methods of the Human Rights Council, as reflected in its report. This year, nevertheless, Israel decided to join consensus on resolution 64/143 in the spirit of constructive engagement and in the hope that the Council will make a shift to professional, even- handed treatment of human rights in order to begin to earn the legitimacy and credibility it has so far failed to gain.
Regrettably, the report of the Human Rights Council considered today continues the path of its discredited predecessors, containing fundamental flaws and misrepresentations of fact in law which irreparably taint its credibility. It continues to adopt a discriminatory approach in addressing and neglecting human rights situations, in particular in regard to its treatment of the conflict in the Middle East, in stark violation of its own founding principles of ensuring universality, objectivity and non-selectivity in the consideration of human rights issues and the elimination of double standards and politicization.
Israel joins consensus while reserving judgement on the Council’s work and recommendations.
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 64?
It was so decided.
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/435 and A/64/435/Corr.1)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 19 of its report and one draft decision recommended by the Committee in paragraph 20 of the same report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I and II and on the draft decision, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “The girl child”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/145).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Rights of the child”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/146).
The President (spoke in Arabic): We shall now take action on the draft decision entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the promotion and protection of the rights of children”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted.
A/64/PV.65
7 09-65853
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 65 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
(b) Second International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/436)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft decision.
The draft decision is entitled “Situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous people”. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 66 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/437)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 26 of its report and two draft decisions recommended by the Committee in paragraph 20 of the same report. We will now take a
decision on draft resolutions I and II and on draft decisions I and II, one by one.
I call on the representative of Israel, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): For the reasons elaborated in my delegation’s explanation of vote in the Third Committee, we would like to reiterate our objection to the two texts referring to Durban, draft resolution II and draft decision I.
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution I is entitled “Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
A/64/PV.65
Against: United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 127 votes to 1, with 54 abstentions (resolution 64/147).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Myanmar advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Israel, Italy, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, Palau, Poland, Romania, United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 128 votes to 13, with 43 abstentions (resolution 64/148).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision I is entitled “Adoption of the outcome document of the Durban Review Conference”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
A/64/PV.65
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Canada, Israel, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, Palau, United States of America.
Abstaining: Czech Republic, Georgia, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Poland, Romania, Tonga, Vanuatu.
Draft decision I was adopted by 166 votes to 7, with 9 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision II is entitled “Report of the Secretary-General on global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt draft decision II recommended by the Third Committee?
Draft decision II was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 67 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/438)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 19 of its report. We will now take action on draft resolutions I, II and III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Universal realization of the right of peoples to self- determination”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/149).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “The right of the Palestinian people to self-determination”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
A/64/PV.65
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States of America.
Abstaining: Cameroon, Canada, Tonga.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 176 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions (resolution 64/150).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
A/64/PV.65
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Fiji, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Tonga.
The draft resolution was adopted by 126 votes to 53, with 4 abstentions (resolution 64/151).
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 68?
It was so decided. Mr. Christian (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair. Agenda item 69 (continued) Promotion and protection of human rights
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 5 of its report. We shall now take action on the draft decision. The draft decision is entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the promotion and protection of human rights”. May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 69.
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.1)
The President: The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee
in paragraph 25 of its report. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I, II and III.
I now give the floor to the representative of Iraq.
Mr. Al-Obaidi (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): I am taking the floor on behalf of the Arab Group. We would like to propose an amendment to operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution I, entitled “International Covenants on Human Rights”. As amended, paragraph 10 would read as follows:
“Also welcomes the reports of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on its thirty-eight and thirty-ninth sessions and on its fortieth and fortieth-first sessions, and takes note of General Comment No. 19 adopted by the Committee on the right to social security”.
The Arab Group shares the view expressed by the African Group in the Third Committee regarding the eradication of all forms of discrimination against all persons for any reason, in accordance with internationally agreed instruments. As mentioned previously in the Third Committee, the reference to General Comment No. 20 in draft resolution I, which relates on the two Universal Covenants, is self- contradictory. First of all, it presents controversial concepts based on sexual orientation and sexual identity. Moreover, the Comment has not been presented to the Economic and Social Council in line with its resolution 1985/17, by which the Committee was established, because it was issued very recently, as is the case with another Comment relating to cultural rights. General Comment No. 20 has not been incorporated into the most recent reports of the Committee; nor has it been issued in edited form. Thus, insisting on adopting it prematurely would create an unprecedented procedural issue. Even more important, it would be an encroachment on the competencies of the principal organs.
The Arab Group’s request for an amendment is prompted by the reference in paragraph 10 to General Comment No. 20, which, because it deals with matters of sexual orientation and sexual identity, contains contentious concepts. Its content portrays rights in terms of the sexual preferences of individuals. That could lead to negative discrimination against others and runs counter to efforts to eliminate discrimination on the basis of race, colour and religion, as well as to achieve equality between men and women. It is of paramount importance to make it abundantly clear that internationally agreed instruments on human rights
A/64/PV.65
should not be interpreted in an incorrect and unusual manner.
The Arab Group hopes that this amendment will have the support of all States and that, in the end, Assembly members will vote in favour of this very important draft resolution.
The Acting President: The Assembly will first take a decision on the oral amendment proposed by the representative of Iraq.
I call on the representative of Finland, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Ms. Fröberg (Finland): First of all, I would like to request a recorded vote on the proposed amendment put forward by Iraq on behalf of the Arab Group.
I also wish to explain my delegation’s vote before the voting. Given the intense negotiations and the enormous concessions we made during the past few months in order to reach consensus on this very important draft resolution, draft resolution I of document A/64/439/Add.1, my delegation once again learns with regret that Iraq on behalf of the Arab Group has proposed an oral amendment to operative paragraph 10 of the draft resolution.
Moreover, it is indeed disappointing that the Arab Group does not respect the outcome of the work of the Third Committee and is insisting on amendments in the plenary of the General Assembly. I do not believe that the delegation of Iraq has put forth convincing arguments in support of the proposed amendment. The amendment, which would delete the reference to General Comment No. 20, on non-discrimination, by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, is, to our mind, a strong signal of distrust towards the independent expert work of the Committee. It has nothing to do with procedural issues.
Since the fifty-second session of the General Assembly, the membership, despite differing views on the content of the General Comments, has been able, in a neutral and factual manner, to take note in its resolutions of the most recent General Comments regardless of whether or not they have been included in the Committee’s reports to the Economic and Social Council. Such factual references have an important awareness-raising aspect for Member States and for the United Nations system as a whole. This draft resolution is about supporting the implementation of the
Covenants, and one part of that support is to raise awareness about developments with respect to the Covenants and their Optional Protocols, as well as the work of the treaty bodies, so that all of us can take reasoned decisions on the basis of available information.
Notwithstanding their non-binding character, the General Comments can be helpful tools to support the Member States and the United Nations in implementing the rights enshrined in the International Covenants on human rights. In fact, in rule 65 of its rules of procedure, adopted in 1990, the Committee itself states that
“The Committee may prepare general comments based on the various articles and provisions of the Covenant with a view to assisting States parties in fulfilling their reporting obligations”. (E/C.12/1990/4/Rev.1)
I would like to highlight the word “assisting”. The General Comments are truly about assisting States in the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights, not about imposing any further obligations on them.
It is true that General Comment No. 20 has not yet been annexed to a report, since it was only adopted by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in May of this year. The fact that it is not in the report of the Committee does not in any way hinder the General Assembly’s consideration of it. It has been issued as an independent United Nations document. There is no rule whatsoever that the Economic and Social Council should consider the General Comments as part of the reports of the Committee before the General Assembly can refer to them in its resolutions. It is not at all unusual to refer in resolutions adopted by the Third Committee to United Nations documents that are not included in reports. Whether or not we refer to a General Comment in a resolution is a political decision that we make here as the membership of the United Nations, nothing more, nothing less.
I also want to repeat that when it comes to General Comment No. 20, on non-discrimination in economic, social and cultural rights, we would once again like to ask the membership to assess the merits of the General Comment on the basis of the text as a whole, and not on the basis of a single reference to sexual orientation in the General Comment. Should we delete the reference to this General Comment now, it would be a great loss for the efforts to enhance the full
A/64/PV.65
13 09-65853
enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights of individuals. This balanced and carefully drafted General Comment starts by stating:
“Discrimination undermines the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights for a significant proportion of the world’s population. Economic growth has not, in itself, led to sustainable development, and individuals and groups of individuals continue to face socio- economic inequality, often because of entrenched historical and contemporary forms of discrimination.” (E/C.12/GC/20, para. 1)
Are we really prepared to say in this body that we are not even able to take note of a General Comment that includes such an important message on the importance of the realization of economic, social and cultural rights? I sincerely hope that we can keep this reference for the sake of our future work.
I also would like to recall that, on the controversial issue that was raised by Iraq on behalf of the Group of Arab States, the only rights that the General Comment refers to are the right to privacy, a person’s pension rights and harassment in schools or in the workplace. All individuals are entitled to these rights, according to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
I would also like to recall that the 18 individual experts serving in their personal capacity as members of the Committee represent all regions and different forms of social and legal systems of the world. According to Economic and Social Council resolution 1985/17, which established the Committee, 15 seats are distributed equally among the regional groups, while the additional three seats are allocated in accordance with the increase in the total number of States parties per regional group. The Committee should thus indeed be in a position to give reasoned opinions and support that truly reflect the variety of systems of the world. Should delegations still not be satisfied with their work, they should express their concerns through direct contact with the Committee and its members rather than by expressing distrust towards the Committee’s work here in the General Assembly.
For all of these reasons, Finland will vote against this oral amendment and requests all other delegations to vote against the oral amendment as well. In other words, push the red button, please.
The Acting President: The representative of Iraq has submitted an oral amendment to operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution I. In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure, the Assembly shall first take a decision on the amendment submitted by the representative of Iraq. We will now proceed to consider the amendment. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Benin, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Egypt, Eritrea, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 14
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, India, Liberia, Mauritius, Nepal, Samoa, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago.
The oral amendment was adopted by 76 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegations of Ethiopia and the Solomon Islands advised the Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: We will now turn to draft resolution I, entitled “International Covenants on Human Rights”, as orally amended. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: None.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 185 votes to none (resolution 64/152).
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/153).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/154).
A/64/PV.65
15 09-65853
The Acting President: I call on the representative of Cuba, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote on the resolutions just adopted.
Ms. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Regarding resolution 64/152, which the Assembly has just adopted, Cuba would like to state that it maintains its traditional position of principle against all types of discrimination for any reason whatsoever — race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, economic position, birth or any other social status. Cuba voted in favour of the amendment proposed by the Group of Arab States supported by the Group of African States, taking into account its technical nature, as we believe that the procedures related to the work of the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations must be respected.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 69?
It was so decided.
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II))
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly considered part I of the report at its 61st plenary meeting, on 10 December 2009. The Assembly has before it 20 draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 110 of part II of its report.
I now give the floor to the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic, who wishes to make a statement in explanation of vote before the voting.
Ms. Halabi (Syrian Arab Republic): I have the honour to deliver the following statement on behalf of the States members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) on the occasion of the General Assembly’s consideration of the report of the Third Committee contained in document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II).
The position of OIC member States on the issue of defamation of religions is based on the provisions of
international instruments including the Charter of the United Nations and other relevant United Nations conventions and resolutions. The defamation of religions is not limited to the realm of religion per se as an abstract idea. Rather, on the contrary, the real consequences of such defamation include outright campaigns of hate speech and negative stereotyping, targeting all the tenets and adherents of Islam or other religions, individually and collectively, depicting the latter as vicious, uncivilized terrorists. The tools used to reach that goal are concealed under the banner of freedom of expression.
Almost all international covenants, instruments and treaties clearly emphasize that freedom of expression should be exercised with responsibility. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (see resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex), which enjoys universal application, stipulates in its article 19 that
“The exercise of [these] rights [including freedom of expression] carries with it special duties and responsibilities. It may ... be subject to certain restrictions”.
Article 20 of the Covenant says that “Any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law”.
Freedom of opinion and expression is important to OIC member States. In upholding that right, it is necessary to also bear in mind article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which stipulates that “Everyone shall have the right ... to manifest his religion or belief in worship, observance, practice and teaching”.
In today’s globalized world, peaceful and harmonious coexistence among diverse religions and cultures is not an option; it is the only means of survival. Spectacular achievements in the sphere of information and communications technology, which have transformed our world into a single community, bring both threats to and opportunities for peaceful coexistence. They present mankind with tools to incite hatred and intolerance, discrimination and distortions of religious and cultural beliefs, which can spark violence that causes loss of innocent lives and damage to property. On the other hand, they can be utilized to do the reverse if we have the collective will not to allow them to be used to preach hatred and intolerance of other religions and cultural beliefs.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 16
Our position on this important issue is firmly anchored in relevant provisions of international law, and mainly in international human rights instruments. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (resolution 217 A (III), in its article 7, stipulates that “All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination ... and against any incitement to such discrimination”.
The frequency of demonic portrayals and misrepresentations of Islam and Muslims has resulted in a situation where the identity of Muslims and their self-esteem, human dignity and human rights have suffered tremendously. Among the instances of Islamophobia is the continued projection of a negative image of Islam and Muslims in the media, in addition to multiple campaigns for anti-Muslim legislation and regulations, including the imposition of restrictions on the construction of places of worship.
Intimidating instances of intolerance and acts of coercion, motivated by extremism — religious or otherwise — only serve to stigmatize groups and peoples belonging to certain religions and constitute clear expressions of incitement to hatred, thereby legitimizing discrimination against them and consequently impairing their enjoyment of the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. More important, they serve to impede their ability to observe, practice and manifest their religion freely and without fear of coercion, violence and reprisal.
Apathy and inaction in preventing such provocation and discrimination, be they against Islam and Muslims or against any other religion and its followers, cannot be justified. Unfortunately, however, intolerance against Islam is being provided intellectual justification by some scholars and political parties that espouse anti-Muslim or anti-immigrant agendas, hence lending support to physical and psychological violence against Muslims and to acts directed against their holy symbols and sites or other places of worship.
Furthermore, OIC member States are deeply concerned that Islam is frequently and wrongly associated with human rights violations and terrorism, based on ignorance and a misconception of the true nature and teachings of Islam. The United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, adopted by the General Assembly on 8 September 2006 as an annex to resolution 60/288, clearly confirms, inter alia, that terrorism cannot and should not be associated with any
religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group. The Strategy also stresses the need to reinforce the international community’s commitment to promoting dialogue, tolerance and understanding among civilizations, cultures, peoples and religions, and to promote mutual respect for and prevent the defamation of religions, religious values, beliefs and cultures.
Discriminatory acts directed against Muslims and Islam are inconsistent with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, which seeks to promote peaceful coexistence among nations. States have clear obligations to prevent such acts under international human rights law and numerous United Nations resolutions, including General Assembly resolutions adopted each year on combating defamation of religions and on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief. That is in addition to General Assembly 55/23, on dialogue among civilizations, and the ongoing activities of the Alliance of Civilizations, which, inter alia, aim to overcome misunderstanding and promote understanding and respect for and among cultures and civilizations.
In that context, the OIC group in New York wishes also to recall the joint statement by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary- General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union, issued on 7 February 2006, which recognized that
“In all societies there is a need to show sensitivity and responsibility in treating issues of special significance for the adherents of any particular faith, even by those who do not share the belief in question.” (Press release SG/2105)
Islam is a religion that implies peace for all humankind. It advocates respect for all religious beliefs and embraces the truth of the preceding Abrahamic faiths. The OIC group —
The Acting President: I am sorry to interrupt the speaker, but the 10-minute period is up. May I therefore ask her to be kind enough to conclude her statement?
Ms. Halabi (Syrian Arab Republic): The OIC group calls upon States to take all possible legal and administrative measures to prevent the repetition or continuation of campaigns for anti-Islamic regulations,
A/64/PV.65
17 09-65853
as these constitute deliberate offensive acts, which greatly impinge on the right to the freedom of thought, conscience and religion of the followers of Islam.
The OIC expects the international community to express its unequivocal opposition to all acts of Islamophobia and to oppose any attempt to undermine the ongoing efforts to promote harmony and friendly relations among the various religions, cultures and civilizations.
The Acting President: We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to XX, one by one. After all the decisions have been taken, representatives will again have the opportunity to explain their votes or positions.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Strengthening the role of the United Nations in enhancing periodic and genuine elections and the promotion of democratization”. I have been informed by the Secretariat that there is no request for a separate vote on operative paragraph 8 of draft resolution I. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/155)
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Combating defamation of religions”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen.
Against: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Abstaining: Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Belize, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mauritius, Mongolia, Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 80 votes to 61, with 42 abstentions (resolution 64/156).
[Subsequently, the delegation of the Solomon Islands advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin,
A/64/PV.65
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Chile, Mexico, Peru.
Draft resolution III was adopted by 127 votes to 54, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/157).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IV is entitled “Strengthening United Nations action in the field of human rights through the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/158).
The Acting President: Draft resolution V is entitled “The right to food”.
I call on the representative of Cuba on a point of order.
Mrs. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): We would like to call attention to operative paragraph 13 of draft resolution V, on the right to food. We recall that when the draft resolution was adopted in the Third Committee, an oral correction was made to that paragraph. Operative paragraph 13 should thus read as follows:
(spoke in English) “Urges States that have not yet done so to
favourably consider becoming parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and to consider becoming States parties to the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture as a matter of priority.”
(spoke in Spanish) I would therefore request that the Secretariat make this correction to the draft resolution. I hope that it will be adopted without a vote, as it was by the Third Committee.
The Acting President: The General Assembly takes note of that. It will be reflected in the final text.
The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/159).
A/64/PV.65
19 09-65853
The Acting President: Draft resolution VI is entitled “Globalization and its impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Brazil, Chile, Singapore.
Draft resolution VI was adopted by 129 votes to 54, with 3 abstentions (resolution 64/160).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Argentina advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: Draft resolution VII is entitled “National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VII without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution VII was adopted (resolution 64/161).
The Acting President: Draft resolution VIII is entitled “Protection of and assistance to internally displaced persons”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VIII without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution VIII was adopted (resolution 64/162).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IX is entitled “Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IX without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IX was adopted (resolution 64/163).
The Acting President: Draft resolution X is entitled “Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution X without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
A/64/PV.65
Draft resolution X was adopted (resolution 64/164).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XI is entitled “Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XI without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XI was adopted (resolution 64/165).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XII is entitled “Protection of migrants”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution XII was adopted (resolution 64/166).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIII is entitled “International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XIII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution XIII was adopted (resolution 64/167).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIV is entitled “Protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism”.
I call on the representative of Egypt on a point of order.
Mr. Attiya (Egypt): I take the floor on a point of order regarding draft resolution XIV. There were a few editorial mistakes in the various language versions before us; we are assured that this does not affect our voting procedure. I just wish to note these corrections, in particular that in operative paragraph 19 of the draft resolution, the French version is different from the English version.
In draft resolution A/C.3/64/L.43/Rev.1, a part was moved in the Committee and it was adopted in that form, as revised and amended. So, in the editing and comparison between both versions, as well as among the versions in the other United Nations languages, we hope that these inconsistencies will be corrected. Also, there was a comma in the English version that, by mistake, was omitted in the second line after the words “within the context of his mandate”.
The Acting President: The General Assembly takes note of this and it will be reflected in the final text.
I have been informed by the Secretariat that there is no request for a recorded vote on draft resolution XIV. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft resolution without a vote?
Draft resolution XIV was adopted (resolution 64/168).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XV is entitled “International Year for People of African Descent”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XV was adopted (resolution 64/169).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVI is entitled “Human rights and unilateral coercive measures”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
A/64/PV.65
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Draft resolution XVI was adopted by 132 votes to 54 (resolution 64/170).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVII is entitled “Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XVII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XVII was adopted (resolution 64/171).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVIII is entitled “The right to development”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, New Zealand, Palau, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Croatia, Cyprus, Finland, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, Vanuatu.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 22
Draft resolution XVIII was adopted by 133 votes to 23, with 30 abstentions (resolution 64/172).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIX is entitled “Promotion of equitable geographical distribution in the membership of the human rights treaty bodies”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Chile, Timor-Leste.
Draft resolution XIX was adopted by 131 votes to 53, with 2 abstentions (resolution 64/173).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XX is entitled “Human rights and cultural diversity”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
A/64/PV.65
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Armenia, Fiji, Japan, Maldives, Timor-Leste.
Draft resolution XX was adopted by 126 votes to 52, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/174).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda 69?
It was so decided.
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.3)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 18 of its report.
Before proceeding further, I should like to inform members that action on draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar”, is postponed to a later date to allow time for the review of its programme budget implications by the Fifth
Committee. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I and III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea- Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Against: Algeria, Belarus, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Namibia, Oman, Russian Federation, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon,
A/64/PV.65
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Yemen, Zambia.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 99 votes to 20, with 63 abstentions (resolution 64/175).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Belize, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kiribati, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Vanuatu.
Against: Afghanistan, Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, China, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkmenistan,
United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ethiopia, Gabon, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Paraguay, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Zambia.
Draft resolution III was adopted by 74 votes to 49, with 59 abstentions (resolution 64/176).
The Acting President: I shall now call on those delegations wishing to speak in explanation of vote on the resolutions just adopted.
Mrs. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Cuba maintains its traditional position of principle against resolutions on specific countries aimed at selectively accusing nations of the South on the basis of clear political motivations that have nothing to do with defending human rights.
Cuba believes that genuine international cooperation, based on principles of objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity, is the only way to effectively promote and protect all human rights. The establishment of the Human Rights Council, and in particular its universal periodic review mechanism, provides the opportunity to give equal consideration to the human rights situation in all countries on the basis of constructive dialogue.
We consider that resolutions of this kind violate the principles of respectful dialogue, cooperation, non-selectivity and non-politicization that should guide the consideration of the topic of human rights. Seeking to impose a policy of isolation and diplomatic pressure against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is incompatible with those principles. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea should undergo the Human Rights Council’s universal periodic review; that is
A/64/PV.65
25 09-65853
where the human rights situation in that country should be discussed and analysed objectively and fairly, and in conditions of equality.
For those reasons Cuba voted once again against the resolution on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. In so doing, Cuba is making no value judgement concerning other pending issues mentioned in paragraph 2 of the resolution, which call for a just and honourable solution with the agreement of all interested parties.
Mrs. Beck (Solomon Islands): My delegation would like to offer an explanation of vote after the voting. Due to immense external pressure over the past few weeks, my delegation had to change its vote today. Our views on country-specific resolutions have been clearly stated in the Third Committee. In that regard, we ask concerned countries to respect us. We will keep our position under review.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 69.
(d) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.4)
The Acting President: May I take it that the Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Third Committee?
It was so decided. The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (d) of agenda item 69?
It was so decided. The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 69.
Agenda item 104
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/440 and A/64/440/Corr.1*)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it five draft resolutions recommended by the Third
Committee in paragraph 24 of its report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to V, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Technical assistance for implementing the international conventions and protocols related to terrorism”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/177).
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Improving the coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/178).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Strengthening the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, in particular its technical cooperation capacity”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/179).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IV is entitled “Preparations for the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/180).
The Acting President: Draft resolution V is entitled “United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/181).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 104?
It was so decided.
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/441)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 11 of its report.
I call on the representative of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, who wishes to speak in explanation of position before action is taken on the draft resolution.
Mr. Loayza Barea (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): The Plurinational State of Bolivia reaffirms its resolute commitment in combating the world drug problem, drug trafficking and organized crime. The draft resolution on international cooperation against the world drug problem, adopted by consensus in the Third Committee and recommended in the report contained in document A/64/441 for adoption by the General Assembly, reflects the vision of the Plurinational State of Bolivia. In operative paragraph 7 (c), it states that due account should be taken of the traditional licit uses of crops where there is historical evidence of such use.
Chewing the coca leaf in its natural state is an age-old ancestral tradition of the indigenous peoples of the Andes and the Amazon in South America. It is part of our history and world view. Out of respect for that tradition, which is an expression of our cultural identity, the President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, in March 2009 submitted a proposal to amend article 49 of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, with respect to coca leaf chewing.
We are gratified that the international community, consistent with the precept set forth in this draft resolution to be approved by the General Assembly, will support Bolivia’s proposal to eliminate this prohibition which has been imposed by the aforementioned Convention due cultural biases without scientific foundation.
The Acting President: We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The draft resolution is entitled “International cooperation against the world drug problem”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 64/182).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 105?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 118 (continued)
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/442)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 4 of its report. We shall now take action on the draft decision. The draft decision, entitled “Programme of work of the Third Committee for the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly”, was adopted by the Third Committee. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 118.
Agenda item 133 (continued)
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/443)
The Acting President: May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Third Committee?
It was so decided. The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 133.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I would like to thank His Excellency Mr. Normans Penke, Permanent Representative of Latvia to the United Nations and Chairman of the Third Committee, the other members of the Bureau, the Secretary of the Committee and all members for a job well done.
The General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of all the reports of the Third Committee before it.
A/64/PV.65
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/64/L.34)
The Acting President: I give the floor to the representative of Uzbekistan to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.34.
Mr. Askarov (Uzbekistan): On behalf of the States members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) — the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Uzbekistan — I would like to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.34, entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization”.
The declaration establishing the Shanghai Cooperation Organization was signed on 15 June 2001 by the Presidents of the SCO member States. Mongolia, the Republic of India, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran enjoy the status of SCO observer States. The charter of the SCO reaffirms its member States’ adherence to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles and norms of international law concerning the maintenance of international peace and security and the development of good-neighbourly and friendly relations and cooperation between States.
The organization’s activities aim at strengthening mutual trust, friendship and good-neighbourliness between its member States; encouraging efficient cooperation in such spheres as, inter alia, politics, trade and economy, science and technology, culture, education, energy, transport and the environment; consolidating efforts at maintaining and ensuring peace, security and stability in the region; and building a democratic, fair and rational international political and economic order.
The Council of Heads of State is the SCO’s supreme governing body. It determines priorities and major areas of the organization’s activities, takes decisions on the fundamental issues of its internal organization and functioning and cooperation with other States and international organizations, and considers the most urgent international problems.
Implementation of the goals and tasks embodied in the SCO charter is coordinated by the following bodies. The Council of Heads of Government — Prime Ministers — of SCO member States, approves the budget of the organization, considers and takes decisions on the main issues pertaining in particular to development of cooperation within the Organization, especially in the economic field. A Council of SCO Foreign Ministers has been established. Meetings of heads of ministries and agencies of SCO member States, involving ministers responsible for foreign trade, transport, education, culture, defence, and so on, are held. Regular meetings of heads of law enforcement and customs agencies, supreme court judges, arbitration judges and attorneys general are conducted, and committees of senior officials and expert working groups are active within the meetings of heads of ministries and agencies. The Council of National Coordinators of SCO member States is the body that coordinates the organization’s current activities and cooperation between the ministries and agencies of SCO member States.
The standing bodies of the organization, which have been functioning since January 2004, are the SCO secretariat, located in Beijing, and the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure, located in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan. Mr. Bolat Nurgaliev, representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who has held the post of Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization since 1 January 2007, will address the General Assembly later this morning. Mr. Myrzakan Subanov, Representative of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, has held the post of Director of the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-terrorist Structure since 1 January 2007.
Permanent representatives of SCO member States are appointed to the SCO secretariat and the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-terrorist Structure.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization has enjoyed observer status in the General Assembly since 2004, and it cooperates closely with the United Nations system in most of its major areas of activity. The Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) is its principal partner. Likewise, the prospects for joint work with the United Nations system in the spheres of environmental protection, humanitarian action and migration look very
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 28
promising. A memorandum of understanding was signed between the SCO and ESCAP in January 2008 in order to strengthen the institutional framework of cooperation between the organization and United Nations bodies. The foregoing indicates that favourable starting conditions for mutually beneficial cooperation between the United Nations and the SCO have been created.
At the same time, it is becoming obvious that, in order to enhance practical cooperation and coordination to address our common objectives, it is essential to make the relationship between the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the United Nations more systematic, which is the purpose of the draft resolution that is being introduced today (A/64/L.34).
The draft resolution takes note of the activities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization aimed at strengthening peace, security and stability in the region, and countering terrorism, separatism and extremism, illicit drug trafficking and other types of criminal activity of a transnational character. It also notes activities aimed at promoting regional cooperation in various areas, such as trade and economic development, energy, transportation, agriculture and agro-industry, regulation of migration, banking and finances, information and telecommunications, science and new technology, customs, education, public health, environmental protection and reducing the danger of natural disasters, and in other related areas.
The draft resolution emphasizes the importance of strengthening dialogue, cooperation and coordination between the United Nations system and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and proposes that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for this purpose, hold regular consultations with the Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization through the existing inter-agency forums and formats, including the annual consultations between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the heads of regional organizations.
The draft resolution proposes that the specialized agencies, organizations, programmes and funds of the United Nations system cooperate with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization with a view to jointly implementing programmes to achieve their goals, and in this regard recommends that their heads commence
consultations with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
In conclusion, I wish to express my gratitude to all those delegations that have participated in the informal consultations and made their valuable contributions. I believe that the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President: In accordance with resolution 59/48 of 2 December 2004, I now give the floor to Mr. Bolat Nurgaliev, Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Mr. Nurgaliev (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) (spoke in Russian): The Assembly’s consideration of draft resolution A/64/L.34, on cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), reflects the growing role that the organization is playing in ensuring peace, security and stability in the Eurasian region. The founding member States of the SCO support the development of practical cooperation with the United Nations on a wide range of important issues, including combating terrorism, separatism and extremism, the illegal drug trade and other types of transnational crime.
The activities of the SCO are also aimed at encouraging regional cooperation in various areas, such as trade, economic and investment ties, energy, transportation, agriculture, banking affairs and finance, information and communication technology and projects, science and new technology, customs cooperation, education, health care, environmental protection, reducing the danger of natural disasters, and ensuring a joint response to natural or man-made emergency situations. The member States of our organization are making a significant contribution to ensuring post-conflict reconstruction in Afghanistan.
The adoption of the draft resolution will enable us to significantly step up our cooperation with the specialized agencies, organizations, programmes and funds of the United Nations system in the interests of jointly carrying out concrete projects in the aforementioned areas.
We would like to express sincere appreciation to all United Nations Member States that supported the inclusion of the item entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization” on the agenda of the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly and for the imminent adoption of draft resolution A/64/L.34.
A/64/PV.65
29 09-65853
The Acting President: We have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. The Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution A/64/L.34. I should like to announce that, since the submission of the draft resolution, the following countries have become sponsors: the Dominican Republic and Pakistan.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/64/L.34?
Draft resolution A/64/L.34 was adopted (resolution 64/183).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 124?
United Nations  A/64/PV.65
General Assembly Sixty-fourth session
65th plenary meeting Friday, 18 December 2010, 10 a.m. New York
Official Records
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
09-65853 (E) *0965853*
President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Reports of the Third Committee
The President (spoke in Arabic): The General Assembly will consider the reports of the Third Committee on agenda items 41, 61, 62, 64 to 69, 104, 105, 118 and 133.
I request the Rapporteur of the Third Committee, Ms. Nicola Hill of New Zealand, to introduce in one intervention the reports of the Committee before the General Assembly.
Ms. Hill (New Zealand), Rapporteur of the Third Committee: Let me begin, Mr. President, by wishing you a happy new year.
I am honoured to present for the consideration of the General Assembly the following reports of the Third Committee on the agenda items allocated to it by the Assembly.
Under agenda item 41, entitled “Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 15 of document A/64/431, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 61, entitled “Social development”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 40 of document A/64/432, the adoption of seven draft resolutions and, in paragraph 41, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 62, entitled “Advancement of women”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 30 of document A/64/433, the adoption of five draft resolutions and, in paragraph 31, the adoption of two draft decisions.
Under agenda item 64, entitled “Report of the Human Rights Council”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 16 of document A/64/434, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 65, entitled “Promotion and protection of the rights of children”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 19 of document A/64/435, the adoption of two draft resolutions and, in paragraph 20, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 66, entitled “Indigenous issues”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 7 of document A/64/436, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under agenda item 67, entitled “Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 26 of document A/64/437, the adoption of two draft resolutions and, in paragraph 27, the adoption of two draft decisions.
Under agenda item 68, entitled “Right of peoples to self-determination”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 19 of document A/64/438, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 69 as a whole, entitled “Promotion and protection of human rights”, the Third
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 2
Committee recommends, in paragraph 5 of document A/64/439, the adoption of one draft decision. I should also like to make a correction to the documentation listed in paragraph 3 of this report. Under item 69 as a whole, the symbol of the letter appearing under the symbol A/C.3/63/4 should be changed to A/C.3/64/4 and the title should read “Letter dated 11 November 2009 from the Permanent Representative of Uzbekistan addressed to the Secretary-General”.
Moving on to sub-item 69 (a), entitled “Implementation of human rights instruments”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 25 of document A/64/439/Add.1, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under sub-item 69 (b), entitled “Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 110 of document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II), the adoption of 20 draft resolutions. I wish to recommend to the Assembly through you, Mr. President, that operative paragraph 2 of draft resolution XIII, entitled “International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance”, be updated to reflect the number of States that have ratified or acceded to the Convention since the adoption of the draft resolution by the Third Committee on 19 November. I am advised by the Secretariat that, as of yesterday, 18 States have ratified or acceded to the Convention.
Also, it may be recalled that, at its 61st plenary meeting, on 10 December, the General Assembly adopted resolution 64/82, entitled “Follow-up to the International Year of Human Rights Learning”, which had been recommended by the Third Committee in document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part I).
Under sub-item 69 (c), entitled “Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 18 of document A/64/439/Add.3, the adoption of three draft resolutions. I understand, however, that the Assembly will defer its consideration of draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar” until such time as it has before it the pertinent report of the Fifth Committee.
Under sub-item 69 (d), entitled “Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action”, the Third
Committee, in document A/64/439/Add.4, advises the Assembly that no proposals were submitted under the sub-item.
Under agenda item 104, entitled “Crime prevention and criminal justice”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 24 of document A/64/440, the adoption of five draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 105, entitled “International drug control”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 11 of document A/64/441, the adoption of one draft resolution.
Under agenda item 118, entitled “Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”, the Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 4 of document A/64/442, the adoption of one draft decision.
Finally, under agenda item 133, entitled “Programme planning”, the Third Committee, in document A/64/443, advises the Assembly that no action was required by it at this session.
I want to thank my fellow Bureau members and the members of the Secretariat, in particular Ambassador Penke and his Deputy, Kristine Maƺinovska, Zahid Rastam, Fiola Hoosen and Edgard Pérez, as well as our secretary, Moncef Khane, for their friendship and support in making this session efficient and ensuring its conclusion on time.
I respectfully commend the reports of the Third Committee to the plenary of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session for its consideration.
The President (spoke in Arabic): I thank the Rapporteur of the Third Committee.
If there is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of the Third Committee that are before the Assembly today.
It was so decided. The President (spoke in Arabic): Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of vote or position. The positions of delegations regarding the recommendations of the Third Committee have been made clear in the Committee and are reflected in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that
A/64/PV.65
3 09-65853
“When the same draft resolution is considered in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote only once, i.e., either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, unless that delegation’s vote in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote or position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats. When a report contains more than one draft resolution, delegations will have an opportunity to explain their positions before and after the General Assembly takes action on all those draft resolutions.
Before we begin to take action on the recommendations contained in the reports of the Third Committee, I should like to advise representatives that we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner as was done in the Third Committee, unless the Secretariat is notified otherwise in advance. I therefore hope that we may proceed to adopt without a vote those recommendations that were adopted without a vote in the Committee.
Before proceeding further, I would like to draw the attention of members to a note by the Secretariat, entitled “List of proposals contained in the reports of the Third Committee”, which has been circulated as document A/C.3/64/INF/1. This note has been distributed desk to desk in the General Assembly Hall as a reference guide for action on draft resolutions and decisions recommended by the Third Committee in its reports.
In this connection, members will find in column three of the note the order and numbers of the draft resolutions or decisions for action in plenary meeting, with their corresponding titles and symbols assigned in the Third Committee in column four of the same note.
Members are reminded that additional sponsors are no longer accepted now that draft resolutions and decisions have been adopted by the Committee. Any clarification about sponsorship should be addressed to the Secretary of the Third Committee.
Agenda item 41
Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/431)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 15 of its report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/127).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Enlargement of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/128).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Assistance to refugees, returnees and displaced persons in Africa”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/129).
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 41?
It was so decided. Agenda item 61
Social development
(a) Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly
(b) Social development, including questions relating to the world social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family
(c) Follow-up to the International Year of Older Persons: Second World Assembly on Ageing
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/432)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it seven draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 40 of its report and a
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 4
draft decision recommended by the Committee in paragraph 41 of the same report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to VII and on the draft decision, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Policies and programmes involving youth”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/130).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Realizing the Millennium Development Goals for persons with disabilities”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/131).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/132).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution IV is entitled “Follow-up to the tenth anniversary of the International Year of the Family and beyond”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/133).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution V is entitled “Proclamation of 2010 as International Year of Youth: Dialogue and Mutual Understanding”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/134).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution VI is entitled “Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VI without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution VI was adopted (resolution 64/135).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution VII is entitled “Cooperatives in social development”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution VII was adopted (resolution 64/136).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Delegations are now invited to turn to paragraph 41 of the report to take action on the draft decision entitled “Overview of the World Social Situation 2009”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 61 and its sub-items (a) to (c)?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 62
Advancement of women
(a) Advancement of women
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/433)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it five draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 30 of its report and two draft decisions recommended by the Committee in paragraph 31 of the same report. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I to V and on draft decisions I and II, one by one.
We turn first to draft resolution I, entitled “Intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/137).
A/64/PV.65
5 09-65853
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/138).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Violence against women migrant workers”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/139).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution IV is entitled “Improvement of the situation of women in rural areas”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/140).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution V is entitled “Follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/141).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Delegations are invited now to turn to paragraph 31 of the report to take action on draft decisions I and II.
Draft decision I is entitled “Commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary of the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action”. The Third Committee adopted draft decision I. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to do likewise?
Draft decision I was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision II is entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the advancement of women”. The Third Committee adopted draft decision
II. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to do the same?
Draft decision II was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): I give the floor to the representative of Israel, who wishes to make a statement in explanation of position on the decisions just taken.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): It is fitting that this morning the General Assembly has adopted a resolution reaffirming the principles enshrined in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women which, itself, was adopted by the Assembly 30 years ago this very day. The State of Israel would like to take this opportunity to voice its complete support for the resolution on the Convention (resolution 64/138) and to restate its commitment to the ideals and actions the Convention promotes.
While all States, including my own, have their unique challenges in ensuring the equality of rights and respect for the human dignity of women, the Convention sets the universal standard: there can be no distinction on the basis of gender in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field. Israel is fully committed to implementing that principle and would like to join other delegations in marking today’s anniversary.
Finally, my delegation would like the record to reflect that Israel had intended to join in sponsoring draft resolution A/C.3/64/L.17 during action in the Third Committee, as it has done in the past, but was unable to do so owing to technical reasons.
The President (spoke in Arabic): The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 62 and its sub-items (a) and (b).
Agenda item 64 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/434)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 16 of its report. We will now take action on the three draft resolutions, one by one.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 6
Draft resolution I is entitled “Guidelines for the Alternative Care of Children”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/142).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Report of the Human Rights Council”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/143).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Office of the President of the Human Rights Council”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/144).
The President (spoke in Arabic): I give the floor to the representative of Israel, who wishes to speak in explanation of position on the resolutions just adopted.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): Israel has growing concerns about a significant part of the working methods of the Human Rights Council, as reflected in its report. This year, nevertheless, Israel decided to join consensus on resolution 64/143 in the spirit of constructive engagement and in the hope that the Council will make a shift to professional, even- handed treatment of human rights in order to begin to earn the legitimacy and credibility it has so far failed to gain.
Regrettably, the report of the Human Rights Council considered today continues the path of its discredited predecessors, containing fundamental flaws and misrepresentations of fact in law which irreparably taint its credibility. It continues to adopt a discriminatory approach in addressing and neglecting human rights situations, in particular in regard to its treatment of the conflict in the Middle East, in stark violation of its own founding principles of ensuring universality, objectivity and non-selectivity in the consideration of human rights issues and the elimination of double standards and politicization.
Israel joins consensus while reserving judgement on the Council’s work and recommendations.
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 64?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 65
Promotion and protection of the rights of children
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/435 and A/64/435/Corr.1)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 19 of its report and one draft decision recommended by the Committee in paragraph 20 of the same report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I and II and on the draft decision, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “The girl child”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/145).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Rights of the child”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/146).
The President (spoke in Arabic): We shall now take action on the draft decision entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the promotion and protection of the rights of children”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted.
A/64/PV.65
7 09-65853
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 65 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 66
Indigenous issues
(a) Indigenous issues
(b) Second International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/436)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft decision.
The draft decision is entitled “Situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous people”. May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 66 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 67
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/437)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 26 of its report and two draft decisions recommended by the Committee in paragraph 20 of the same report. We will now take a
decision on draft resolutions I and II and on draft decisions I and II, one by one.
I call on the representative of Israel, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mrs. Shahar Ben-Ami (Israel): For the reasons elaborated in my delegation’s explanation of vote in the Third Committee, we would like to reiterate our objection to the two texts referring to Durban, draft resolution II and draft decision I.
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution I is entitled “Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 8
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 127 votes to 1, with 54 abstentions (resolution 64/147).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Myanmar advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Israel, Italy, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, Palau, Poland, Romania, United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 128 votes to 13, with 43 abstentions (resolution 64/148).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision I is entitled “Adoption of the outcome document of the Durban Review Conference”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
A/64/PV.65
9 09-65853
In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Canada, Israel, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, Palau, United States of America.
Abstaining: Czech Republic, Georgia, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Poland, Romania, Tonga, Vanuatu.
Draft decision I was adopted by 166 votes to 7, with 9 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft decision II is entitled “Report of the Secretary-General on global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt draft decision II recommended by the Third Committee?
Draft decision II was adopted. The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 67 and its sub-items (a) and (b)?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 68
Right of peoples to self-determination
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/438)
The President (spoke in Arabic): The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 19 of its report. We will now take action on draft resolutions I, II and III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Universal realization of the right of peoples to self- determination”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/149).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution II is entitled “The right of the Palestinian people to self-determination”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 10
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Israel, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States of America.
Abstaining: Cameroon, Canada, Tonga.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 176 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions (resolution 64/150).
The President (spoke in Arabic): Draft resolution III is entitled “Use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada,
A/64/PV.65
11 09-65853
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Fiji, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Tonga.
The draft resolution was adopted by 126 votes to 53, with 4 abstentions (resolution 64/151).
The President (spoke in Arabic): May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 68?
It was so decided. Mr. Christian (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair. Agenda item 69 (continued) Promotion and protection of human rights
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 5 of its report. We shall now take action on the draft decision. The draft decision is entitled “Reports considered by the General Assembly in connection with the promotion and protection of human rights”. May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to adopt the draft decision recommended by the Third Committee?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 69.
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.1)
The President: The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee
in paragraph 25 of its report. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I, II and III.
I now give the floor to the representative of Iraq.
Mr. Al-Obaidi (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): I am taking the floor on behalf of the Arab Group. We would like to propose an amendment to operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution I, entitled “International Covenants on Human Rights”. As amended, paragraph 10 would read as follows:
“Also welcomes the reports of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on its thirty-eight and thirty-ninth sessions and on its fortieth and fortieth-first sessions, and takes note of General Comment No. 19 adopted by the Committee on the right to social security”.
The Arab Group shares the view expressed by the African Group in the Third Committee regarding the eradication of all forms of discrimination against all persons for any reason, in accordance with internationally agreed instruments. As mentioned previously in the Third Committee, the reference to General Comment No. 20 in draft resolution I, which relates on the two Universal Covenants, is self- contradictory. First of all, it presents controversial concepts based on sexual orientation and sexual identity. Moreover, the Comment has not been presented to the Economic and Social Council in line with its resolution 1985/17, by which the Committee was established, because it was issued very recently, as is the case with another Comment relating to cultural rights. General Comment No. 20 has not been incorporated into the most recent reports of the Committee; nor has it been issued in edited form. Thus, insisting on adopting it prematurely would create an unprecedented procedural issue. Even more important, it would be an encroachment on the competencies of the principal organs.
The Arab Group’s request for an amendment is prompted by the reference in paragraph 10 to General Comment No. 20, which, because it deals with matters of sexual orientation and sexual identity, contains contentious concepts. Its content portrays rights in terms of the sexual preferences of individuals. That could lead to negative discrimination against others and runs counter to efforts to eliminate discrimination on the basis of race, colour and religion, as well as to achieve equality between men and women. It is of paramount importance to make it abundantly clear that internationally agreed instruments on human rights
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 12
should not be interpreted in an incorrect and unusual manner.
The Arab Group hopes that this amendment will have the support of all States and that, in the end, Assembly members will vote in favour of this very important draft resolution.
The Acting President: The Assembly will first take a decision on the oral amendment proposed by the representative of Iraq.
I call on the representative of Finland, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Ms. Fröberg (Finland): First of all, I would like to request a recorded vote on the proposed amendment put forward by Iraq on behalf of the Arab Group.
I also wish to explain my delegation’s vote before the voting. Given the intense negotiations and the enormous concessions we made during the past few months in order to reach consensus on this very important draft resolution, draft resolution I of document A/64/439/Add.1, my delegation once again learns with regret that Iraq on behalf of the Arab Group has proposed an oral amendment to operative paragraph 10 of the draft resolution.
Moreover, it is indeed disappointing that the Arab Group does not respect the outcome of the work of the Third Committee and is insisting on amendments in the plenary of the General Assembly. I do not believe that the delegation of Iraq has put forth convincing arguments in support of the proposed amendment. The amendment, which would delete the reference to General Comment No. 20, on non-discrimination, by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, is, to our mind, a strong signal of distrust towards the independent expert work of the Committee. It has nothing to do with procedural issues.
Since the fifty-second session of the General Assembly, the membership, despite differing views on the content of the General Comments, has been able, in a neutral and factual manner, to take note in its resolutions of the most recent General Comments regardless of whether or not they have been included in the Committee’s reports to the Economic and Social Council. Such factual references have an important awareness-raising aspect for Member States and for the United Nations system as a whole. This draft resolution is about supporting the implementation of the
Covenants, and one part of that support is to raise awareness about developments with respect to the Covenants and their Optional Protocols, as well as the work of the treaty bodies, so that all of us can take reasoned decisions on the basis of available information.
Notwithstanding their non-binding character, the General Comments can be helpful tools to support the Member States and the United Nations in implementing the rights enshrined in the International Covenants on human rights. In fact, in rule 65 of its rules of procedure, adopted in 1990, the Committee itself states that
“The Committee may prepare general comments based on the various articles and provisions of the Covenant with a view to assisting States parties in fulfilling their reporting obligations”. (E/C.12/1990/4/Rev.1)
I would like to highlight the word “assisting”. The General Comments are truly about assisting States in the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights, not about imposing any further obligations on them.
It is true that General Comment No. 20 has not yet been annexed to a report, since it was only adopted by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in May of this year. The fact that it is not in the report of the Committee does not in any way hinder the General Assembly’s consideration of it. It has been issued as an independent United Nations document. There is no rule whatsoever that the Economic and Social Council should consider the General Comments as part of the reports of the Committee before the General Assembly can refer to them in its resolutions. It is not at all unusual to refer in resolutions adopted by the Third Committee to United Nations documents that are not included in reports. Whether or not we refer to a General Comment in a resolution is a political decision that we make here as the membership of the United Nations, nothing more, nothing less.
I also want to repeat that when it comes to General Comment No. 20, on non-discrimination in economic, social and cultural rights, we would once again like to ask the membership to assess the merits of the General Comment on the basis of the text as a whole, and not on the basis of a single reference to sexual orientation in the General Comment. Should we delete the reference to this General Comment now, it would be a great loss for the efforts to enhance the full
A/64/PV.65
13 09-65853
enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights of individuals. This balanced and carefully drafted General Comment starts by stating:
“Discrimination undermines the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights for a significant proportion of the world’s population. Economic growth has not, in itself, led to sustainable development, and individuals and groups of individuals continue to face socio- economic inequality, often because of entrenched historical and contemporary forms of discrimination.” (E/C.12/GC/20, para. 1)
Are we really prepared to say in this body that we are not even able to take note of a General Comment that includes such an important message on the importance of the realization of economic, social and cultural rights? I sincerely hope that we can keep this reference for the sake of our future work.
I also would like to recall that, on the controversial issue that was raised by Iraq on behalf of the Group of Arab States, the only rights that the General Comment refers to are the right to privacy, a person’s pension rights and harassment in schools or in the workplace. All individuals are entitled to these rights, according to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
I would also like to recall that the 18 individual experts serving in their personal capacity as members of the Committee represent all regions and different forms of social and legal systems of the world. According to Economic and Social Council resolution 1985/17, which established the Committee, 15 seats are distributed equally among the regional groups, while the additional three seats are allocated in accordance with the increase in the total number of States parties per regional group. The Committee should thus indeed be in a position to give reasoned opinions and support that truly reflect the variety of systems of the world. Should delegations still not be satisfied with their work, they should express their concerns through direct contact with the Committee and its members rather than by expressing distrust towards the Committee’s work here in the General Assembly.
For all of these reasons, Finland will vote against this oral amendment and requests all other delegations to vote against the oral amendment as well. In other words, push the red button, please.
The Acting President: The representative of Iraq has submitted an oral amendment to operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution I. In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure, the Assembly shall first take a decision on the amendment submitted by the representative of Iraq. We will now proceed to consider the amendment. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Benin, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Egypt, Eritrea, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 14
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, India, Liberia, Mauritius, Nepal, Samoa, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago.
The oral amendment was adopted by 76 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegations of Ethiopia and the Solomon Islands advised the Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: We will now turn to draft resolution I, entitled “International Covenants on Human Rights”, as orally amended. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: None.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 185 votes to none (resolution 64/152).
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/153).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/154).
A/64/PV.65
15 09-65853
The Acting President: I call on the representative of Cuba, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote on the resolutions just adopted.
Ms. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Regarding resolution 64/152, which the Assembly has just adopted, Cuba would like to state that it maintains its traditional position of principle against all types of discrimination for any reason whatsoever — race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, economic position, birth or any other social status. Cuba voted in favour of the amendment proposed by the Group of Arab States supported by the Group of African States, taking into account its technical nature, as we believe that the procedures related to the work of the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations must be respected.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 69?
It was so decided.
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II))
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly considered part I of the report at its 61st plenary meeting, on 10 December 2009. The Assembly has before it 20 draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 110 of part II of its report.
I now give the floor to the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic, who wishes to make a statement in explanation of vote before the voting.
Ms. Halabi (Syrian Arab Republic): I have the honour to deliver the following statement on behalf of the States members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) on the occasion of the General Assembly’s consideration of the report of the Third Committee contained in document A/64/439/Add.2 (Part II).
The position of OIC member States on the issue of defamation of religions is based on the provisions of
international instruments including the Charter of the United Nations and other relevant United Nations conventions and resolutions. The defamation of religions is not limited to the realm of religion per se as an abstract idea. Rather, on the contrary, the real consequences of such defamation include outright campaigns of hate speech and negative stereotyping, targeting all the tenets and adherents of Islam or other religions, individually and collectively, depicting the latter as vicious, uncivilized terrorists. The tools used to reach that goal are concealed under the banner of freedom of expression.
Almost all international covenants, instruments and treaties clearly emphasize that freedom of expression should be exercised with responsibility. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (see resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex), which enjoys universal application, stipulates in its article 19 that
“The exercise of [these] rights [including freedom of expression] carries with it special duties and responsibilities. It may ... be subject to certain restrictions”.
Article 20 of the Covenant says that “Any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law”.
Freedom of opinion and expression is important to OIC member States. In upholding that right, it is necessary to also bear in mind article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which stipulates that “Everyone shall have the right ... to manifest his religion or belief in worship, observance, practice and teaching”.
In today’s globalized world, peaceful and harmonious coexistence among diverse religions and cultures is not an option; it is the only means of survival. Spectacular achievements in the sphere of information and communications technology, which have transformed our world into a single community, bring both threats to and opportunities for peaceful coexistence. They present mankind with tools to incite hatred and intolerance, discrimination and distortions of religious and cultural beliefs, which can spark violence that causes loss of innocent lives and damage to property. On the other hand, they can be utilized to do the reverse if we have the collective will not to allow them to be used to preach hatred and intolerance of other religions and cultural beliefs.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 16
Our position on this important issue is firmly anchored in relevant provisions of international law, and mainly in international human rights instruments. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (resolution 217 A (III), in its article 7, stipulates that “All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination ... and against any incitement to such discrimination”.
The frequency of demonic portrayals and misrepresentations of Islam and Muslims has resulted in a situation where the identity of Muslims and their self-esteem, human dignity and human rights have suffered tremendously. Among the instances of Islamophobia is the continued projection of a negative image of Islam and Muslims in the media, in addition to multiple campaigns for anti-Muslim legislation and regulations, including the imposition of restrictions on the construction of places of worship.
Intimidating instances of intolerance and acts of coercion, motivated by extremism — religious or otherwise — only serve to stigmatize groups and peoples belonging to certain religions and constitute clear expressions of incitement to hatred, thereby legitimizing discrimination against them and consequently impairing their enjoyment of the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. More important, they serve to impede their ability to observe, practice and manifest their religion freely and without fear of coercion, violence and reprisal.
Apathy and inaction in preventing such provocation and discrimination, be they against Islam and Muslims or against any other religion and its followers, cannot be justified. Unfortunately, however, intolerance against Islam is being provided intellectual justification by some scholars and political parties that espouse anti-Muslim or anti-immigrant agendas, hence lending support to physical and psychological violence against Muslims and to acts directed against their holy symbols and sites or other places of worship.
Furthermore, OIC member States are deeply concerned that Islam is frequently and wrongly associated with human rights violations and terrorism, based on ignorance and a misconception of the true nature and teachings of Islam. The United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, adopted by the General Assembly on 8 September 2006 as an annex to resolution 60/288, clearly confirms, inter alia, that terrorism cannot and should not be associated with any
religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group. The Strategy also stresses the need to reinforce the international community’s commitment to promoting dialogue, tolerance and understanding among civilizations, cultures, peoples and religions, and to promote mutual respect for and prevent the defamation of religions, religious values, beliefs and cultures.
Discriminatory acts directed against Muslims and Islam are inconsistent with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, which seeks to promote peaceful coexistence among nations. States have clear obligations to prevent such acts under international human rights law and numerous United Nations resolutions, including General Assembly resolutions adopted each year on combating defamation of religions and on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief. That is in addition to General Assembly 55/23, on dialogue among civilizations, and the ongoing activities of the Alliance of Civilizations, which, inter alia, aim to overcome misunderstanding and promote understanding and respect for and among cultures and civilizations.
In that context, the OIC group in New York wishes also to recall the joint statement by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary- General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union, issued on 7 February 2006, which recognized that
“In all societies there is a need to show sensitivity and responsibility in treating issues of special significance for the adherents of any particular faith, even by those who do not share the belief in question.” (Press release SG/2105)
Islam is a religion that implies peace for all humankind. It advocates respect for all religious beliefs and embraces the truth of the preceding Abrahamic faiths. The OIC group —
The Acting President: I am sorry to interrupt the speaker, but the 10-minute period is up. May I therefore ask her to be kind enough to conclude her statement?
Ms. Halabi (Syrian Arab Republic): The OIC group calls upon States to take all possible legal and administrative measures to prevent the repetition or continuation of campaigns for anti-Islamic regulations,
A/64/PV.65
17 09-65853
as these constitute deliberate offensive acts, which greatly impinge on the right to the freedom of thought, conscience and religion of the followers of Islam.
The OIC expects the international community to express its unequivocal opposition to all acts of Islamophobia and to oppose any attempt to undermine the ongoing efforts to promote harmony and friendly relations among the various religions, cultures and civilizations.
The Acting President: We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to XX, one by one. After all the decisions have been taken, representatives will again have the opportunity to explain their votes or positions.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Strengthening the role of the United Nations in enhancing periodic and genuine elections and the promotion of democratization”. I have been informed by the Secretariat that there is no request for a separate vote on operative paragraph 8 of draft resolution I. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/155)
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Combating defamation of religions”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen.
Against: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Abstaining: Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Belize, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mauritius, Mongolia, Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia.
Draft resolution II was adopted by 80 votes to 61, with 42 abstentions (resolution 64/156).
[Subsequently, the delegation of the Solomon Islands advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin,
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 18
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Argentina, Armenia, Chile, Mexico, Peru.
Draft resolution III was adopted by 127 votes to 54, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/157).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IV is entitled “Strengthening United Nations action in the field of human rights through the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/158).
The Acting President: Draft resolution V is entitled “The right to food”.
I call on the representative of Cuba on a point of order.
Mrs. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): We would like to call attention to operative paragraph 13 of draft resolution V, on the right to food. We recall that when the draft resolution was adopted in the Third Committee, an oral correction was made to that paragraph. Operative paragraph 13 should thus read as follows:
(spoke in English) “Urges States that have not yet done so to
favourably consider becoming parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and to consider becoming States parties to the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture as a matter of priority.”
(spoke in Spanish) I would therefore request that the Secretariat make this correction to the draft resolution. I hope that it will be adopted without a vote, as it was by the Third Committee.
The Acting President: The General Assembly takes note of that. It will be reflected in the final text.
The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/159).
A/64/PV.65
19 09-65853
The Acting President: Draft resolution VI is entitled “Globalization and its impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Brazil, Chile, Singapore.
Draft resolution VI was adopted by 129 votes to 54, with 3 abstentions (resolution 64/160).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Argentina advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: Draft resolution VII is entitled “National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VII without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution VII was adopted (resolution 64/161).
The Acting President: Draft resolution VIII is entitled “Protection of and assistance to internally displaced persons”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution VIII without a vote. May I take it the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution VIII was adopted (resolution 64/162).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IX is entitled “Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IX without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IX was adopted (resolution 64/163).
The Acting President: Draft resolution X is entitled “Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution X without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 20
Draft resolution X was adopted (resolution 64/164).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XI is entitled “Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XI without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XI was adopted (resolution 64/165).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XII is entitled “Protection of migrants”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution XII was adopted (resolution 64/166).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIII is entitled “International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XIII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution XIII was adopted (resolution 64/167).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIV is entitled “Protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism”.
I call on the representative of Egypt on a point of order.
Mr. Attiya (Egypt): I take the floor on a point of order regarding draft resolution XIV. There were a few editorial mistakes in the various language versions before us; we are assured that this does not affect our voting procedure. I just wish to note these corrections, in particular that in operative paragraph 19 of the draft resolution, the French version is different from the English version.
In draft resolution A/C.3/64/L.43/Rev.1, a part was moved in the Committee and it was adopted in that form, as revised and amended. So, in the editing and comparison between both versions, as well as among the versions in the other United Nations languages, we hope that these inconsistencies will be corrected. Also, there was a comma in the English version that, by mistake, was omitted in the second line after the words “within the context of his mandate”.
The Acting President: The General Assembly takes note of this and it will be reflected in the final text.
I have been informed by the Secretariat that there is no request for a recorded vote on draft resolution XIV. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to adopt the draft resolution without a vote?
Draft resolution XIV was adopted (resolution 64/168).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XV is entitled “International Year for People of African Descent”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XV was adopted (resolution 64/169).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVI is entitled “Human rights and unilateral coercive measures”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
A/64/PV.65
21 09-65853
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Draft resolution XVI was adopted by 132 votes to 54 (resolution 64/170).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVII is entitled “Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution XVII without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution XVII was adopted (resolution 64/171).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XVIII is entitled “The right to development”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Netherlands, New Zealand, Palau, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Austria, Croatia, Cyprus, Finland, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, Vanuatu.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 22
Draft resolution XVIII was adopted by 133 votes to 23, with 30 abstentions (resolution 64/172).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XIX is entitled “Promotion of equitable geographical distribution in the membership of the human rights treaty bodies”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Chile, Timor-Leste.
Draft resolution XIX was adopted by 131 votes to 53, with 2 abstentions (resolution 64/173).
The Acting President: Draft resolution XX is entitled “Human rights and cultural diversity”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
A/64/PV.65
23 09-65853
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against: Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining: Armenia, Fiji, Japan, Maldives, Timor-Leste.
Draft resolution XX was adopted by 126 votes to 52, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/174).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda 69?
It was so decided.
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.3)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 18 of its report.
Before proceeding further, I should like to inform members that action on draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar”, is postponed to a later date to allow time for the review of its programme budget implications by the Fifth
Committee. We shall now take a decision on draft resolutions I and III.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea- Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu.
Against: Algeria, Belarus, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Namibia, Oman, Russian Federation, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon,
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 24
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Yemen, Zambia.
Draft resolution I was adopted by 99 votes to 20, with 63 abstentions (resolution 64/175).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Belize, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kiribati, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Vanuatu.
Against: Afghanistan, Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, China, Comoros, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkmenistan,
United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.
Abstaining: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Ethiopia, Gabon, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Paraguay, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Zambia.
Draft resolution III was adopted by 74 votes to 49, with 59 abstentions (resolution 64/176).
The Acting President: I shall now call on those delegations wishing to speak in explanation of vote on the resolutions just adopted.
Mrs. Pérez Álvarez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Cuba maintains its traditional position of principle against resolutions on specific countries aimed at selectively accusing nations of the South on the basis of clear political motivations that have nothing to do with defending human rights.
Cuba believes that genuine international cooperation, based on principles of objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity, is the only way to effectively promote and protect all human rights. The establishment of the Human Rights Council, and in particular its universal periodic review mechanism, provides the opportunity to give equal consideration to the human rights situation in all countries on the basis of constructive dialogue.
We consider that resolutions of this kind violate the principles of respectful dialogue, cooperation, non-selectivity and non-politicization that should guide the consideration of the topic of human rights. Seeking to impose a policy of isolation and diplomatic pressure against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is incompatible with those principles. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea should undergo the Human Rights Council’s universal periodic review; that is
A/64/PV.65
25 09-65853
where the human rights situation in that country should be discussed and analysed objectively and fairly, and in conditions of equality.
For those reasons Cuba voted once again against the resolution on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. In so doing, Cuba is making no value judgement concerning other pending issues mentioned in paragraph 2 of the resolution, which call for a just and honourable solution with the agreement of all interested parties.
Mrs. Beck (Solomon Islands): My delegation would like to offer an explanation of vote after the voting. Due to immense external pressure over the past few weeks, my delegation had to change its vote today. Our views on country-specific resolutions have been clearly stated in the Third Committee. In that regard, we ask concerned countries to respect us. We will keep our position under review.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 69.
(d) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/439/Add.4)
The Acting President: May I take it that the Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Third Committee?
It was so decided. The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (d) of agenda item 69?
It was so decided. The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 69.
Agenda item 104
Crime prevention and criminal justice
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/440 and A/64/440/Corr.1*)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it five draft resolutions recommended by the Third
Committee in paragraph 24 of its report. We will now take a decision on draft resolutions I to V, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Technical assistance for implementing the international conventions and protocols related to terrorism”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution I without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 64/177).
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled “Improving the coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution II without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 64/178).
The Acting President: Draft resolution III is entitled “Strengthening the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, in particular its technical cooperation capacity”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 64/179).
The Acting President: Draft resolution IV is entitled “Preparations for the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution IV without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 64/180).
The Acting President: Draft resolution V is entitled “United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders”. The Third Committee adopted draft resolution V without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 64/181).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 104?
It was so decided.
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 26
Agenda item 105
International drug control
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/441)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 11 of its report.
I call on the representative of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, who wishes to speak in explanation of position before action is taken on the draft resolution.
Mr. Loayza Barea (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): The Plurinational State of Bolivia reaffirms its resolute commitment in combating the world drug problem, drug trafficking and organized crime. The draft resolution on international cooperation against the world drug problem, adopted by consensus in the Third Committee and recommended in the report contained in document A/64/441 for adoption by the General Assembly, reflects the vision of the Plurinational State of Bolivia. In operative paragraph 7 (c), it states that due account should be taken of the traditional licit uses of crops where there is historical evidence of such use.
Chewing the coca leaf in its natural state is an age-old ancestral tradition of the indigenous peoples of the Andes and the Amazon in South America. It is part of our history and world view. Out of respect for that tradition, which is an expression of our cultural identity, the President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, in March 2009 submitted a proposal to amend article 49 of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, with respect to coca leaf chewing.
We are gratified that the international community, consistent with the precept set forth in this draft resolution to be approved by the General Assembly, will support Bolivia’s proposal to eliminate this prohibition which has been imposed by the aforementioned Convention due cultural biases without scientific foundation.
The Acting President: We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The draft resolution is entitled “International cooperation against the world drug problem”. The Third Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 64/182).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 105?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 118 (continued)
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/442)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 4 of its report. We shall now take action on the draft decision. The draft decision, entitled “Programme of work of the Third Committee for the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly”, was adopted by the Third Committee. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 118.
Agenda item 133 (continued)
Programme planning
Report of the Third Committee (A/64/443)
The Acting President: May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Third Committee?
It was so decided. The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 133.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I would like to thank His Excellency Mr. Normans Penke, Permanent Representative of Latvia to the United Nations and Chairman of the Third Committee, the other members of the Bureau, the Secretary of the Committee and all members for a job well done.
The General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of all the reports of the Third Committee before it.
A/64/PV.65
27 09-65853
Agenda item 124
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/64/L.34)
The Acting President: I give the floor to the representative of Uzbekistan to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.34.
Mr. Askarov (Uzbekistan): On behalf of the States members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) — the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Uzbekistan — I would like to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.34, entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization”.
The declaration establishing the Shanghai Cooperation Organization was signed on 15 June 2001 by the Presidents of the SCO member States. Mongolia, the Republic of India, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran enjoy the status of SCO observer States. The charter of the SCO reaffirms its member States’ adherence to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles and norms of international law concerning the maintenance of international peace and security and the development of good-neighbourly and friendly relations and cooperation between States.
The organization’s activities aim at strengthening mutual trust, friendship and good-neighbourliness between its member States; encouraging efficient cooperation in such spheres as, inter alia, politics, trade and economy, science and technology, culture, education, energy, transport and the environment; consolidating efforts at maintaining and ensuring peace, security and stability in the region; and building a democratic, fair and rational international political and economic order.
The Council of Heads of State is the SCO’s supreme governing body. It determines priorities and major areas of the organization’s activities, takes decisions on the fundamental issues of its internal organization and functioning and cooperation with other States and international organizations, and considers the most urgent international problems.
Implementation of the goals and tasks embodied in the SCO charter is coordinated by the following bodies. The Council of Heads of Government — Prime Ministers — of SCO member States, approves the budget of the organization, considers and takes decisions on the main issues pertaining in particular to development of cooperation within the Organization, especially in the economic field. A Council of SCO Foreign Ministers has been established. Meetings of heads of ministries and agencies of SCO member States, involving ministers responsible for foreign trade, transport, education, culture, defence, and so on, are held. Regular meetings of heads of law enforcement and customs agencies, supreme court judges, arbitration judges and attorneys general are conducted, and committees of senior officials and expert working groups are active within the meetings of heads of ministries and agencies. The Council of National Coordinators of SCO member States is the body that coordinates the organization’s current activities and cooperation between the ministries and agencies of SCO member States.
The standing bodies of the organization, which have been functioning since January 2004, are the SCO secretariat, located in Beijing, and the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure, located in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan. Mr. Bolat Nurgaliev, representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who has held the post of Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization since 1 January 2007, will address the General Assembly later this morning. Mr. Myrzakan Subanov, Representative of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, has held the post of Director of the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-terrorist Structure since 1 January 2007.
Permanent representatives of SCO member States are appointed to the SCO secretariat and the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-terrorist Structure.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization has enjoyed observer status in the General Assembly since 2004, and it cooperates closely with the United Nations system in most of its major areas of activity. The Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) is its principal partner. Likewise, the prospects for joint work with the United Nations system in the spheres of environmental protection, humanitarian action and migration look very
A/64/PV.65
09-65853 28
promising. A memorandum of understanding was signed between the SCO and ESCAP in January 2008 in order to strengthen the institutional framework of cooperation between the organization and United Nations bodies. The foregoing indicates that favourable starting conditions for mutually beneficial cooperation between the United Nations and the SCO have been created.
At the same time, it is becoming obvious that, in order to enhance practical cooperation and coordination to address our common objectives, it is essential to make the relationship between the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the United Nations more systematic, which is the purpose of the draft resolution that is being introduced today (A/64/L.34).
The draft resolution takes note of the activities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization aimed at strengthening peace, security and stability in the region, and countering terrorism, separatism and extremism, illicit drug trafficking and other types of criminal activity of a transnational character. It also notes activities aimed at promoting regional cooperation in various areas, such as trade and economic development, energy, transportation, agriculture and agro-industry, regulation of migration, banking and finances, information and telecommunications, science and new technology, customs, education, public health, environmental protection and reducing the danger of natural disasters, and in other related areas.
The draft resolution emphasizes the importance of strengthening dialogue, cooperation and coordination between the United Nations system and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and proposes that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for this purpose, hold regular consultations with the Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization through the existing inter-agency forums and formats, including the annual consultations between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the heads of regional organizations.
The draft resolution proposes that the specialized agencies, organizations, programmes and funds of the United Nations system cooperate with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization with a view to jointly implementing programmes to achieve their goals, and in this regard recommends that their heads commence
consultations with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
In conclusion, I wish to express my gratitude to all those delegations that have participated in the informal consultations and made their valuable contributions. I believe that the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President: In accordance with resolution 59/48 of 2 December 2004, I now give the floor to Mr. Bolat Nurgaliev, Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Mr. Nurgaliev (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) (spoke in Russian): The Assembly’s consideration of draft resolution A/64/L.34, on cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), reflects the growing role that the organization is playing in ensuring peace, security and stability in the Eurasian region. The founding member States of the SCO support the development of practical cooperation with the United Nations on a wide range of important issues, including combating terrorism, separatism and extremism, the illegal drug trade and other types of transnational crime.
The activities of the SCO are also aimed at encouraging regional cooperation in various areas, such as trade, economic and investment ties, energy, transportation, agriculture, banking affairs and finance, information and communication technology and projects, science and new technology, customs cooperation, education, health care, environmental protection, reducing the danger of natural disasters, and ensuring a joint response to natural or man-made emergency situations. The member States of our organization are making a significant contribution to ensuring post-conflict reconstruction in Afghanistan.
The adoption of the draft resolution will enable us to significantly step up our cooperation with the specialized agencies, organizations, programmes and funds of the United Nations system in the interests of jointly carrying out concrete projects in the aforementioned areas.
We would like to express sincere appreciation to all United Nations Member States that supported the inclusion of the item entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization” on the agenda of the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly and for the imminent adoption of draft resolution A/64/L.34.
A/64/PV.65
29 09-65853
The Acting President: We have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. The Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution A/64/L.34. I should like to announce that, since the submission of the draft resolution, the following countries have become sponsors: the Dominican Republic and Pakistan.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/64/L.34?
Draft resolution A/64/L.34 was adopted (resolution 64/183).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 124?
