EtpuGeneral Assembly Sixty-fifth session
73rd plenary meeting Thursday, 23 December 2010, 3 p.m. New York
Official Records
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
10-70481 (E) *1070481*
Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly
(b) Report of the Credentials Committee (A/65/583/Rev.1)
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor to the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to introduce the Committee’s report.
Mr. Menon (Singapore), Chairman of the Credentials Committee: In my capacity as Chairman of the Credentials Committee, I have the honour to introduce the Committee’s report contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1.
The Credentials Committee met on 16 November to examine the credentials of representatives of Member States to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. On the basis of that meeting, the Committee prepared the report contained in document A/65/583.
In the light of the events in Côte d’Ivoire since the elections on 28 November, the Committee met again on 22 December. At that meeting, the Committee decided by consensus to amend its report to the Assembly after considering the credentials submitted by Côte d’Ivoire on 22 December. The report of the Credentials Committee as amended is contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1 and is before the Assembly for consideration.
On behalf of the Credentials Committee, I have the honour to recommend to the General Assembly the adoption of the draft resolution contained in paragraph 12 of the report contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1.
I wish to take this opportunity to extend my sincere gratitude to all members of the Committee for their collegiality and for efficiently and constructively working towards the consensus on the report.
The President (spoke in French): The General Assembly will now consider the draft resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee in paragraph 12 of its report. We will now take a decision on it. The Committee adopted without a vote the draft resolution entitled “Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/237).
The President (spoke in French): I now give the floor to the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/237.
Mr. Salsabili (Islamic Republic of Iran): My delegation joined the consensus on the resolution just adopted, entitled “Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly” (resolution 65/237). However, I would like to express my delegation’s reservations on any part of the report
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 2
contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1 that may be construed as recognition of the Israeli regime.
The President (spoke in French): I call on the representative of Nigeria on a point of order.
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria): I had indicated my desire for the floor to request that the President postpone the adoption of the draft resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee. But it would appear that my raised hand was not seen. I would appreciate that being taken into consideration.
The President (spoke in French): I regret that this proposal was received too late. The representative of Nigeria should have placed his name on the Secretariat’s list of speakers.
I call on the representative of Namibia on a point of order.
Mr. Emvula (Namibia): It looks as if today’s change in the programme of work put some pressure on all of us such that we might not have been timely in making the point that we had wanted to take the floor. However, on behalf of the Southern African Development Community, I take the floor to support the request made by the representative of Nigeria. We received the report (A/65/583/Rev.1) of the Credentials Committee just a couple minutes ago. We would have wanted a little more time to reflect on it, as there are quite a number of issues that we as a delegation would have wanted to raise.
The President (spoke in French): I take note of the comments made by the representatives of Namibia and Nigeria. However, I once again regret that no request for the floor was transmitted to the Secretariat. As a result, the Assembly proceeded to take its decision.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3.
Statement by the President
The President (spoke in French): Before proceeding to the other items on our agenda for today’s meeting, I would like to take this opportunity to make some general comments as we approach the end of the main part of the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
I would first of all like to thank all delegations for their constructive collaboration and the spirit of
cooperation that prevailed during our deliberations. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Vice-Presidents and the Chairs of the six Main Committees for their leadership and valuable and crucial support in making it possible for the Assembly to carry out its work.
Among the highlights of the three to four past months, I would like to underscore the following aspects. First, I was greatly encouraged by how much the theme I proposed for the general debate — “Reaffirming the central role of the United Nations in global governance” — resonated among Member States. As members are aware, there were some practical illustrations of that following the general debate, in particular during the two informal plenary meetings held before and after the Group of Twenty (G-20) Summit in Seoul. I was very pleased to note that representatives of Member States used that opportunity to participate in discussions on issues concerning the G-20. I was especially heartened on 8 December by the adoption of resolution 65/94, entitled “The United Nations in global governance” — and all the more so because more than 100 Member States sponsored it.
Another highlight of this session was certainly last September’s High-level Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals. On that occasion, Member States, often in the person of their head of State or Government, reaffirmed their intention to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. I welcome the strong support expressed. The challenge now, of course, is to ensure that words are translated into action. I believe it is our role here in the General Assembly to monitor the activities associated with promises made.
Other high-level meetings were also held in September on various issues. In particular, I should like to highlight the High-level Meeting on Biodiversity, which was followed by the Nagoya Biodiversity Summit, where fortunately an important step forward was taken. The debate on small island developing States also comes to mind, which was important for all countries concerned in garnering the support we should give those States. Lastly, on 29 October, the Assembly adopted resolution 65/7, on the review of the United Nations peacebuilding architecture. As members are aware, that is a joint undertaking with the Security Council.
A/65/PV.73
3 10-70481
Looking forward to what awaits us early next year when we resume work, I believe that a key event will doubtless be the high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS. According to the modalities set out in resolution 65/180, that high-level meeting will take place from 8 to 10 June and will be preceded, no later than in April, by an informal interactive hearing with representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society and representatives of the private sector. I would like here to thank Ambassador Gary Quinlan of Australia and Ambassador Charles Ntwaagae of Botswana for their work on this matter and for their excellent cooperation in preparing that meeting.
The second chapter in our work to come will be to ensure progress in the internal reform of the Organization. I would first of all like to thank Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan for agreeing to continue to chair the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council reform. I would also like to thank Ambassador Dalius ýekuolis of Lithuania and Ambassador Camillo Gonsalves of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for co-chairing the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the General Assembly.
On the same subject of internal reform, there is also the issue of the review of the Human Rights Council. Ambassador Christian Wenaweser of Lichtenstein and Ambassador Mohammed Loulichki of Morocco are working hard on this issue. I would also like to thank Ambassador Octavio Errázuriz of Chile for serving as facilitator on the review of the Economic and Social Council. All those reviews must proceed. I believe that the we should be able to complete the reviews of the Economic and Social Council and the Human Rights Council during the course of the sixty- fifth session.
We will also work on the modalities and further preparation for the various high-level meetings that will take place in September 2011 during the Assembly’s sixty-sixth session. In that connection, I would like to thank Ambassador Raymond Wolfe of Jamaica and Ambassador Silvie Lucas of Luxembourg for kindly facilitating the preparation of the high-level meeting on the prevention and control of non- communicable diseases.
We will also hold a series of informal thematic debates, about which members have already received some information. At this stage in the preparations process, I can announce the following meetings. There
will be an informal plenary meeting on 14 January to hear a briefing by the Secretary-General on his priorities for 2011. There will be an informal debate on February on the issue of on disaster reduction. There will also be an informal thematic debate in early March so that the General Assembly can contribute to the preparations for the Istanbul conference on the least developed countries. The exact title and the dates will be announced later.
On 16 March there will be an informal interactive dialogue with President Tarja Halonen of Finland and President Jacob Zuma of South Africa, who are the co-Chairs of the High-level Panel on Global Sustainability. There will also be an informal thematic debate on 19 May on international migration, as called for in resolution 63/225. An informal debate on the green economy is tentatively scheduled for 26 May.
As I have mentioned on various occasions, I also intend to convene an informal thematic debate on the broader aspects of global governance, which is tentatively planned for 23 June. I also intend to convene an informal plenary meeting to continue the interaction between the General Assembly and the upcoming French presidency of the G-20. I hope that we will be able to schedule that meeting earlier in the year, given that this year we had no option but to hold it just a few days prior to the 2010 Summit. Conditions should be better this year, especially given that the French presidency has assured us of its full cooperation with the Assembly.
In conclusion, I would like once again to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership, dedication and, I must add, the excellent cooperation between himself and the presidency of the General Assembly. My thanks also go to the Secretariat staff, in particular the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management. As we are all aware, without their contribution the Assembly simply would not be able to function.
Finally, I would like to extend to all delegations, their staff, families and friends my best wishes for healthy and restorative holidays and a good start to the coming new year.
The Fifth Committee has not yet completed its work, but we hope that its formal meeting will take place this evening. This plenary meeting will resume once the Committee has completed its work.
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 4
In the absence of the President, Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 2.50 a.m. on 24 December.
Agenda item 115 (continued)
Draft resolution (A/65/L.50)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/660)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the General Assembly held a debate on agenda item 115 jointly with item 13 at the 40th and 41st plenary meetings, on 29 October 2010, as well as jointly with agenda items 13 and 120 at the 52nd plenary meeting, on 23 November 2010. Members will also recall that, under agenda items 13 and 115, the Assembly adopted resolution 65/7 at its 41st plenary meeting, on 29 October.
The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/65/L.50 is contained in document A/65/660.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.50, entitled “Scope, modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution A/65/L.50 was adopted (resolution 65/238).
The Acting President: I give the floor to the representative of France on a point of order.
Mr. Doré (France) (spoke in French): My delegation wishes to draw the Assembly’s attention to the absence of official language versions of the documents that have been submitted to us. We would like to call for strict respect for the rules and regulations governing the language regime established for the various organs and bodies of the United Nations. We understand the necessity of taking a decision this evening on the draft resolution, and thus to display the necessary flexibility; but we nonetheless wish to have our request recorded.
The Acting President: The Assembly takes note of the comments by the representative of France.
I now give the floor to the representative of Trinidad and Tobago, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/238.
Ms. Haynes (Trinidad and Tobago): I have the great honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the 14 member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) following the adoption of resolution 65/238, on the scope, modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. The adoption by consensus of this resolution underscores the General Assembly’s recognition of the need for urgent action by the international community to address the rising incidence and prevalence of these diseases worldwide.
Today, we have achieved yet another milestone leading up to the convening of the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases in September 2011. This success is owed to a number of important partners, without whom this feat would not have been accomplished.
At this juncture, CARICOM once again wishes to express its appreciation to the Secretary-General, the President of the General Assembly and the Secretariat for the valuable assistance provided thus far. We look forward to continued support as we move forward, particularly in relation to the finalization of arrangements for the high-level meeting. In the context of this resolution, CARICOM specifically commends the stewardship of the Permanent Representatives of Jamaica and Luxembourg, who capably led a challenging negotiation process to a successful outcome. CARICOM further appreciates the solidarity of member States of the Group of 77 and China, as well as the constructive engagement of all delegations, which facilitated agreement on the format and organization of this most important high-level meeting. Not least, CARICOM recognizes the support already received from the World Health Organization (WHO). We are positive that this close collaboration will be maintained throughout this process and beyond as we turn our attention to this pressing issue of global concern.
As we advance in our work, CARICOM anticipates the report of the Secretary-General on the global status of non-communicable diseases, with a particular focus on the developmental challenges faced
A/65/PV.73
by developing countries. We expect the report to make an essential contribution to the preparatory process, which includes regional consultations and an informal interactive hearing with non-governmental organizations, civil society, the private sector and academia.
Finally, CARICOM remains committed to working with Member States, the Secretariat, WHO and relevant partners to ensure a successful high-level meeting on 19 and 20 September 2011, which will result in the adoption of a concise, action-oriented outcome document. In that regard, we await the preparation of the draft text of the document and urge all delegations to engage fully and constructively in this endeavour.
CARICOM also encourages participation in the high-level meeting at the level of heads of State and Government. We count on continued collaboration to guarantee that this significant event, to be comprised of plenary meetings and round-table discussions, will generate the requisite results to guide the development of strategic responses to non-communicable diseases and their repercussions.
The Acting President: I should like to express my sincere thanks to Ambassadors Raymond Wolfe of Jamaica and Sylvie Lucas of Luxembourg, who have so ably and patiently conducted the discussions and complex negotiations in the informal consultations. I also wish to thank all Member States for their valuable contributions to the successful finalization of the resolution we have just adopted.
The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 115.
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Follow-up to the commemoration of the two- hundredth anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade
Draft resolution (A/65/L.36)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/658)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly held a debate on this item at its 61st plenary meeting, on 9 December. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/65/L.36 is contained in document A/65/658.
I give the floor to the representative of Jamaica.
Ms. Wilson (Jamaica): As the hour is late, I will be very brief. I have the honour to inform the General Assembly that since the introduction, on 9 December, of the draft resolution entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”, contained in document A/65/L.36, the following countries have become sponsors of the draft resolution: Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, the Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay. That brings the total number of sponsors to 146 countries.
I wish to draw the General Assembly’s attention to the statement made by the representative of Trinidad and Tobago on behalf of the member States of the Caribbean Community on 9 December (see A/65/PV.61) in introducing the draft resolution we are about to adopt. In particular, I take this opportunity to reiterate that, as a result of informal consultations among Member States, we reached an agreement to make some changes to paragraph 10, to make it clear that the panel of judges to be appointed for the international design competition would not be restricted solely to persons or specialists linked to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, since we prefer to adopt a broad, inclusive approach for the competition. We hope that the Secretariat will make the necessary revision to the document in short order, taking into account the agreement reached among Member States.
The paragraph should therefore read as follows:
“Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to assist the committee in defining guidelines for the selection process and in identifying qualified candidates, including from its pool of international specialists to serve on the international jury.”
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 6
During the General Assembly’s consideration of this agenda item, we heard repeated statements from many delegations affirming the importance of this issue. It is therefore heartening that the Fifth Committee has approved sustainable funding for the annual commemorative events, traditionally held in March, to honour the memory of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade.
At the request of some Member States, and in the interest of transparency and accountability, the draft resolution includes a paragraph requesting the United Nations Office for Partnerships, through the Secretary- General, to submit a comprehensive report to the General Assembly on the status of the Trust Fund, and in particular on contributions received and their utilization. That request is once again reflected in paragraph 13 of the text before the Assembly today. In that connection, I wish to draw the Assembly’s attention to document A/65/605, which fulfils that request.
In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to all those who constructively engaged in the informal consultations on the draft resolution. I am confident that, like similar ones in the past, the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus, in particular in view of the strong support shown by Member States. Finally, let me express particular appreciation to the Member States of Africa and the Caribbean Community, which continue to play a primary role in advancing the permanent memorial initiative under the theme we have adopted for our initiative, namely, “Acknowledging the tragedy and considering the legacy, lest we forget”. Indeed, we thank all those Member States that have sponsored the draft resolution and supported this initiative.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take action on draft resolution A/65/L.36, entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”, as orally revised.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.36, as orally revised?
Draft resolution A/65/L.36, as orally revised, was adopted (resolution 65/239).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 116.
Reports of the Third and Fifth Committees
The Acting President: The General Assembly will now take up the remaining reports of the Third Committee on agenda item 66 and sub-item (c) of agenda item 68. Immediately thereafter, the Assembly will consider sub-item (e) of agenda item 122. Thereafter, the Assembly will take up the reports of the Fifth Committee on agenda items 127 and 130, 132 to 134, 136 to 138, 139 together with 128, 140 to 142, 144, 147 together with 148, 153 and 157.
If there is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of the Third and Fifth Committees that are before the Assembly today.
It was so decided. The Acting President: Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of vote. The positions of delegations regarding the recommendations of the Third and Fifth Committees have been made clear in the Committees and are reflected in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that:
“When the same draft resolution is considered in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote only once, that is, either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, unless that delegation’s vote in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance with decision 34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Before we begin to take action on the recommendations contained in the reports of the Third and Fifth Committees, I should like to advise representatives that we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner as was done in the Committees, unless notified otherwise in advance.
A/65/PV.73
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/65/454)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/659)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it draft resolution III, recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 27 of its report. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of the draft resolution is contained in document A/65/659.
We shall now take a decision on draft resolution III, entitled “Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against: Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, Palau, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Cyprus, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Samoa, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Tonga, Ukraine
Draft resolution III was adopted by 104 votes to 22, with 33 abstentions (resolution 65/240).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 66.
Agenda item 68 (continued)
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/65/456/Add.3)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/657)
The Acting President: We shall now take action on draft resolution II, recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 25 of its report. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications the draft resolution is contained in document A/65/657.
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 8
We will now take a decision on draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palau, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay
Against: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Brunei
Darussalam, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Oman, Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahrain, Barbados,
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Haiti, Jordan, Kuwait, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Swaziland, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Zambia
Draft resolution II was adopted by 85 votes to 26, with 46 abstentions (resolution 65/241).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Indonesia advised the Secretariat that it had intended to abstain.]
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Myanmar, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/241.
Mr. Swe (Myanmar): My delegation wishes to express our deep appreciation to Member countries that have upheld genuine human rights principles, despite intense external pressure from a handful of countries, either by casting a negative vote or by abstaining. Nevertheless, it is a known fact that the politicization and heavy-handed approach of some countries made it more difficult for some Member States to freely express their own will to vote against this biased and ill-intended resolution.
It is noteworthy to point out some developments that have recently taken place in Myanmar. First, the general election was held smoothly and peacefully. Secondly, all delegations that have recently visited Myanmar personally witnessed that peace and stability prevail in almost every corner of our country. In summary, the European Union’s country-specific resolution, which has just been adopted, totally neglects the positive accomplishments achieved by the Myanmar Government in the past two decades. We therefore voted against this highly politicized country-specific resolution. At the same time, we dissociate ourselves from the resolution and will not be bound by it.
Despite all those facts, I would like to reaffirm that, in conformity with Myanmar’s foreign policy, we will continue to cooperate with the United Nations and the good offices role of the Secretary-General.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 68 and of agenda item 68 as a whole?
It was so decided.
9 10-70481
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of all the reports of the Third Committee.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other organizations
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and the Caribbean Community
Draft resolution (A/65/L.54)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly held the debate on agenda item 122 and its sub-items (b) to (w) at its 63rd and 64th plenary meetings, on 13 December.
I now give the floor to the representative of Trinidad and Tobago to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.54.
Ms. Haynes (Trinidad and Tobago): In the interests of time, I shall deliver a shortened version of my statement. The full text is available in the copies that are being distributed.
The Agenda for Development (see resolution 51/240, annex), adopted by the Assembly in 1997, states that few, if any, societies can pursue all aspects of development unaided. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) States are proof of that truism, as a result of a number of factors relating to our history, geography and the structure of the international economy.
In 1994, by virtue of resolution 49/141, the General Assembly urged the specialized agencies and other organizations and programmes of the United Nations system to cooperate with the Secretary- General of the United Nations and the Secretary- General of the Caribbean Community in order to initiate, maintain and increase consultations and programmes with the Caribbean Community and its associated institutions in the achievement of their common objectives.
Draft resolution A/65/L.54, which I have the privilege to introduce today on behalf of the 14 member States of the Caribbean Community and several States that have generously agreed to join us in sponsoring it, describes the current status of that cooperation. At this juncture, I must express our appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and to the specialized agencies for demonstrating, through their continuing cooperation with our States, the vitality of the principle of cooperation for the common good.
CARICOM particularly values those aspects of cooperation that aim at building capacity in the region. While capacity-building may not be the silver bullet where development is concerned, there is no denying the relationship between technological innovations and the competitive use of knowledge, on the one hand, and the reduction of poverty, on the other.
In that regard, I draw special attention to four directions of that capacity-building thrust, as contained in the draft resolution. The first is found in paragraph 6, which focuses on the work that is done by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The second is found in paragraph 8, which focuses on the work that is done by the United Nations Development Programme. The third is found in paragraph 9, which focuses on the work done with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. And the fourth is found in paragraph 10, which focuses on the cooperation that we have had with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
The second major thrust of our cooperation with the United Nations aims at improving the quality of life in the region. In that regard, I draw attention to paragraph 11, which contains our appeal to organizations of the United Nations system to step up their assistance to us as we confront the scourge of HIV/AIDS in the region. Despite some gains recorded as a result of anti-retroviral treatment, HIV/AIDS continues to be a significant cause of mortality in the region. We need more help in coping with that challenge.
In the same context, I also draw attention to paragraph 12, which is motivated by our profound concern about the harmful effects on our societies of the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. In that paragraph, we repeat our call for the reopening of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in the region so as to reinforce our efforts in the struggle against that hydra-headed phenomenon.
The third major thrust of our cooperation aims at strengthening cooperation in order to make the international development framework more sensitive
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 10
and responsive to the development needs of our countries. That concern is expressed principally in paragraphs 4 and 16.
The draft resolution also addresses two specific initiatives that CARICOM States have taken on behalf of all humankind. The first of those is reflected in paragraphs 13 to 15, where we express our appreciation to the Department of Public Information for the cooperation extended to our States in the implementation of the annual commemoration, on 25 March, of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade. We believe that the desecration of humankind at any one time or in any one region is the desecration of humankind everywhere.
The second initiative, reflected in paragraph 17, calls on the United Nations, including its specialized agencies, organizations and programmes, to assist the preparatory process for the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases and to provide support to Member States in the lead-up to that meeting, scheduled to be held in New York in September 2011.
On a procedural note, we welcome, in paragraph 19, the scheduling in 2011 of the sixth general meeting to be held between representatives of the Caribbean Community and of the United Nations, which will review and appraise the progress made in the implementation of the agreed areas of cooperation.
In conclusion, on behalf of the CARICOM group of States, I express sincere thanks to those States that have seen fit to join us in sponsoring the draft resolution. We trust that all other States will see in it an instrument that is deserving of their enthusiastic support.
The Acting President: We will now proceed to consider draft resolution A/65/L.54. I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly and Conference Management): In connection with draft resolution A/65/L.54, entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Caribbean Community”, I wish to put on record the following statement of financial implications on behalf of the Secretary- General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
Under the terms of paragraphs 12, 14 and 17 of the draft resolution, the General Assembly would stress
the urgent need for the reopening of the office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in the region so as to reinforce the efforts of the States of the region in their struggle against the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons; request the Department of Public Information, in cooperation with the countries concerned and relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, to continue to take appropriate steps to enhance public awareness worldwide of the commemorative activities and the permanent memorial initiative, and to continue to facilitate efforts to erect the permanent memorial at United Nations Headquarters, in keeping with paragraph 9 of resolution 64/15; and call upon the United Nations, including its specialized agencies, organizations and programmes, to assist in the preparatory process for the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases and to provide support to Member States, as appropriate, leading up to the high- level meeting to be held in New York in September 2011.
With respect to paragraph 12, relating to the reopening of the office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, additional extra budgetary resources will be needed in order to reinforce the efforts of the States of the region in their struggle against the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. With effect from February 2011, a crime prevention expert will be posted to the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) secretariat in Georgetown, Guyana, and a law enforcement adviser will be posted to the CARICOM Implementation Agency for Crime and Security secretariat in Trinidad and Tobago. Based on that new presence in the region, UNODC will make every effort to further strengthen its presence.
It is the understanding of the Secretary-General that the request in paragraph 14 is in line with the terms under paragraphs 6 and 7 of resolution 65/239, entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”. Should the draft resolution be adopted, the Department of Public Information has already indicated that, in connection with it, it would organize a series of activities annually to commemorate the International Day of Remembrance, including an exhibition and screening of films touching on the theme, a student video conference and a cultural event and/or concert
A/65/PV.73
11 10-70481
celebrating culture and arts relating to the remembrance of slavery, as well as various educational outreach resources.
The increased scope of activities would involve additional resources amounting to $251,500 — $239,400 under section 27, “public information” and $12,100 under section 36 “staff assessment”, to be offset by the same amount under Income Section I, “Income from Staff Assessment” of the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011. In line with rule 153 of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General has issued a statement on the programme budget implications of resolution 65/239 (see A/C.5/65/11 and A/C.5/65/11/Corr.1) which, as just approved, would be applied to facilitate the implementation of draft resolution A/65/L.54.
With respect to paragraph 17, the Assembly’s adoption of the draft resolution would not have conference-servicing implications under section 2, “General Assembly and Economic and Social Council affairs and conference management”, as there is no additional request for meetings and no indication of additional documentation requirements. Accordingly, notwithstanding earlier comments on paragraph 14, the adoption of draft resolution A/65/L.54 would not entail any additional requirements under the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. I again give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly and Conference Management): I should like to announce that since its introduction, the following countries have also become sponsors of draft resolution A/65/L.54: Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, Congo, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Fiji, Georgia, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Micronesia, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Swaziland, Thailand, Timor-Leste, the United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay and Vanuatu.
The Acting President: May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.54?
Draft resolution A/65/L.54 was adopted (resolution 65/242).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (e) of agenda item 122?
It was so decided.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The President: The General Assembly will now consider the reports of the Fifth Committee on agenda items 127 to 130, 132 to 134, 136 to 142, 128 together with 139, 144, 147 together with 148, 153 and 157.
I request the Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee to introduce in one intervention the reports of the Fifth Committee before the Assembly.
Ms. Mannion (Ireland), Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee: I have the honour today to present to the General Assembly the reports of the Fifth Committee containing recommendations on issues that required action during the main part of the Assembly’s sixty- fifth session. The Fifth Committee met from 30 September to 23 December and held 27 plenary meetings and approximately 130 rounds of informal consultations and numerous informal-informal consultations.
With regard to agenda item 127, entitled “Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors”, in paragraph 8 of its report contained in document A/65/594, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 130, entitled “Programme Planning”, in paragraph 7 of its report contained in document A/65/544, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution on programme planning, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 132, entitled “Pattern of conferences”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/595, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 133, entitled “Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations”, in paragraph 6 of its report
A/65/PV.73
contained in document A/65/492/Add.1, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Concerning agenda item 134, entitled “Human resources management”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/647, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 136, entitled “United Nations common system”, in paragraph 7 of its report contained in document A/65/648, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
The report of the Fifth Committee under agenda item 137, entitled “United Nations pension system”, is contained in document A/65/633. The draft resolution recommended for adoption by the Committee is contained in paragraph 8 of the report. The Committee adopted it without a vote.
Agenda item 138 is entitled “Administrative and budgetary coordination of the United Nations with specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency”. The Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/543, the adoption of a draft decision, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
Under agenda items 139, entitled “Report on the activities on the Office of Internal Oversight Services”, and 128, “Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/649, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution on the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on its activities, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 140, entitled “Administration of justice at the United Nations”, the Committee, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/650, recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
The report of the Committee on agenda item 141, entitled “Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994”, is contained in document A/65/651. In paragraph 6 of the report, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Under agenda item 142, entitled “Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/652, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 144, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/653, the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Under agenda items 147 and 148, entitled, respectively, “Financing of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo” and “Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/654, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Regarding agenda item 153, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/655, the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 157, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/656, the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Regarding agenda item 129, entitled “Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/646, the
A/65/PV.73
13 10-70481
Committee recommends to the Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution entitled “Conditions of service and compensation for officials other than Secretariat officials: members of the International Court of Justice and judges and ad litem judges of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda”, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
In its report contained in document A/65/646/Add.1, the Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of two draft resolutions and two draft decisions, respectively. Draft resolutions I and II relate to questions relating to the programme budget for the 2010-2011 biennium. The Committee adopted without a vote draft decision I, which deals with the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships. The Committee also adopted without a vote draft decision II, which deals with the Capital Master Plan.
Also with regard to agenda item 129, the Committee considered four statements on programme budget implications. Document A/C.5/65/L.20 contains the four draft decisions concerning programme budget implications. The Committee adopted the draft decision under section C by a recorded vote of 102 in favour, 17 against and 33 abstentions. The Committee adopted without a vote the three draft decisions in the other sections. Document A/C.5/65/L.22 contains 19 draft resolutions on questions relating to the programme budget for the 2010-2011 biennium. The Committee adopted document A/C.5/65/L.22 by a recorded vote of 144 in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. The Committee recommends to the Assembly the adoption of those draft resolutions. The reports of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of each of those draft resolutions are contained in documents A/65/657 to A/65/660.
Finally, under agenda item 128, entitled “Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations”, in paragraph 8 of its report contained in document A/65/645, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of two draft resolutions, entitled “Procurement” and “Proposed programme budget outline for the biennium 2012-2013”, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
I wish to thank delegations for their cooperation, and to assure them that the changes made in the course
of the Fifth Committee’s 27th formal meeting have been duly taken into account and will be reflected in the draft resolutions and reports, which will be issued shortly.
Before I conclude, allow me, on a brief personal note, to thank the Chair of the Fifth Committee, Ambassador Gert Rosenthal of Guatemala, for the wise and noble way in which he guided us through our difficult work, as well as my fellow Bureau members, working with whom is always a truly gratifying experience. I also express my thanks to Ms. Susan McLurg, Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions. To all of those with whom I have had the privilege and honour to be seated next to at the podium of Conference Room 3, I would like to thank them for their camaraderie.
Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the staff of the Fifth Committee secretariat for their invaluable assistance and hard work during this session. I wish everyone a wonderful holiday.
The Acting President: I thank the Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee.
Before proceeding further, I would like to emphasize to representatives that, as the Fifth Committee has just finished its work, its reports are available in English only. It is my understanding that they will be issued in all languages as soon as possible. I thank members for their understanding.
Agenda item 127
Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/594)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/243).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 127.
A/65/PV.73
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/544)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/244).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 130.
Agenda item 132 (continued)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/595)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/245).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 132.
Agenda item 133 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/492/Add.1)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/246).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 133.
Agenda item 134
Human resources management
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/647)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.15. We will now take action on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/247).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 134.
Agenda item 136
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/648)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.16. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “United Nations common system: report of the International Civil Service Commission”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/248).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 136.
A/65/PV.73
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/633)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/249).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 137.
Agenda item 138
Administrative and budgetary coordination of the United Nations with the specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/543)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take action on the draft decision, entitled “Budgetary and financial situation of the organizations of the United Nations system”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 138.
Agenda items 128 and 139
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations
Report on the activities of the Office of Internal Oversight Services
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/649)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in
document A/C.5/65/L.9. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/250).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda items 128 and 139.
Agenda item 140
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/650)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.17. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/251).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 140.
Agenda item 141
Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/651)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.18. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
A/65/PV.73
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/252).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 141.
Agenda item 142
Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/652)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.19. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/253).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 142.
Agenda item 144
Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/653)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.11. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/254).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 144.
Agenda items 147 and 148
Financing of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/654)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.12. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/255).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda items 147 and 148.
Agenda item 153
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/655)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.13. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/256).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 153.
A/65/PV.73
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/656)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.14. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/257).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 157.
Agenda item 129
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/646 and A/65/646/Add.1)
The Acting President: We shall first turn to document A/65/646. The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.21. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “Conditions of service and compensation for officials other than Secretariat officials: members of the International Court of Justice and judges and ad litem judges of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.” The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/258).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to the report of the Fifth Committee contained in document A/65/646/Add.1. The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Fifth Committee in its report and two draft decisions recommended in the same report. We shall first turn to draft resolution I. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is
contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22. Draft resolution I is entitled “Questions relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”.
I shall first give the floor to representatives who wish to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mr. Bayat Mokhtari (Islamic Republic of Iran): My delegation has asked for the floor to explain its vote on the draft resolution contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22, which is now before the General Assembly, as we cannot join any consensus to recognize any mechanism to enforce unlawful sanctions against my country.
The Islamic Republic of Iran regards Security Council resolution 1929 (2010) and other related resolutions adopted to impose sanctions on Iran as unjust and unlawful. It is our firm belief that these resolutions are crafted based on false speculation and misinformation propagated by some to advance their political ambitions, which are to deprive a developing country and a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of its inalienable right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
In my delegation’s view, using the financial and human resources of the Organization, paid for by the contributions of Member States, for a panel of experts is unlawful. My delegation therefore cannot allow a consensus on an issue that jeopardizes the national security of my country.
Nevertheless, my delegation would like to make it clear that Iran’s no vote on this draft resolution should not be interpreted as disagreement with other provisions of the draft resolution, where adopted by consensus.
Mr. Cumberbatch Miguen (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Given the lateness of the hour and in the interest of time, my delegation will shorten its explanation of vote. We have already delivered a more extensive statement during the proceedings of the Fifth Committee.
My delegation would like to make it clear that its vote against section XIII of the draft resolution currently contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22 has to do with to our position with respect to accepting the logical framework proposed by the Secretariat in document A/65/328/Add.1 for the work of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 18
Genocide — which, as currently formulated, constitutes a clear violation of all the rules and procedures of the General Assembly dealing with strategic frameworks and the presentation of narratives in budgetary documents. The Secretariat has inferred that the reports it produces constitute legislative mandates. That is unacceptable.
The Assembly has not endorsed — in any of its resolutions — the idea that the concept of the responsibility to protect is part of the main mandates of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide. The Assembly has not agreed — in any of its resolutions — that the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General for the Responsibility to Protect is part of the office in question.
Although we understand that some delegations support the concept of the responsibility to protect, it is also true that the many legitimate concerns that this issue raises cannot be ignored. There is a real danger that the responsibility to protect will end up being manipulated covertly by certain parties who seek to justify, in various ways, the use of force and interfering in others’ affairs.
The irresponsible action of the Secretariat has led to an institutional crisis. Those who have forced the decision to endorse the logical framework presented to us are already aware that there is no longer any consensus possible on the concept of the responsibility to protect. The Secretariat and those who support it have poisoned the process in the plenary of the General Assembly, which debates this matter. The logical framework that was presented to us can never again be adopted without a vote.
The reality is that we do not have a clear and universally accepted definition of the responsibility to protect. It is therefore unacceptable to attempt, through a budgetary and programmatic document, to ignore and prejudge the decisions that are taken on this issue in the General Assembly and to force issues that do not enjoy consensus in the Assembly.
These are the reasons for which our delegation will vote against section XIII in particular. In this context, our vote pertains solely to the logical framework of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide.
Mrs. Giménez-Jiménez (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): My delegation would
like to state for the record that our vote against section XIII of the draft resolution contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22 pertains solely to the concerns with regard to the Office of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide.
In that regard, my delegation has continually expressed its concern about the change made in the logical framework of the Office of the Special Adviser referred to in document A/65/328/Add.1, which has attempted to include in the mandate of the Office issues that do not enjoy intergovernmental consensus. This represents a grave mistake in terms of the administrative procedures governing the allocation of the Organization’s resources. We believe that those resources should only be used to implement mandates that have been agreed upon at the intergovernmental level.
A little over a year ago, the General Assembly held the first substantive debate on the responsibility to protect. At that time, Member States agreed on only one point, namely, the need to continue to evaluate and address the concept of the responsibility to protect.
However, the presentation of the strategic framework for the Office of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide puts into practice suggestions contained in the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Early warning, assessment and the responsibility to protect” (A/64/864). No action was taken by the General Assembly as a result of that document, but it is now reflected in the Office of the Special Adviser as a fait accompli — implementing activities, establishing priorities and extending the mandate of the Special Adviser.
This approach presupposes that the concept of the responsibility to protect has been agreed upon and accepted. Unfortunately, we must emphasize that seeking to impose a generalized agreement on the concept of the responsibility to protect is, colloquially speaking, to put the cart before the horse.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela would like to reiterate that the main responsibility to protect falls to States. The international community can therefore play a constructive role by supporting national efforts, while always respecting the provisions of the United Nations Charter and safeguarding the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States.
A/65/PV.73
19 10-70481
Mr. Rosales Díaz (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): Given the lateness of the hour, I shall confine myself to referring members to my delegation’s statements in the Fifth Committee. My delegation would also like to align itself with the statements made by the representatives of Cuba and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
The Acting President: A separate recorded vote has been requested on section XIII of draft resolution I, which I shall now put to the vote.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam
Against: Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Myanmar, Nicaragua, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe
Abstaining: Botswana, Gabon, Japan, Senegal, Solomon
Islands, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic
Section XIII of draft resolution I was retained by 119 votes to 9, with 7 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegations of Botswana and Japan advised the Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: I shall now put to the vote draft resolution I as a whole. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
A/65/PV.73
Against: Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Abstaining: Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Myanmar, Syrian Arab Republic
The draft resolution was adopted by 142 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions (resolution 65/259).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft resolution II, entitled “Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”. For the time being, the text of that draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 65/260).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft decision I, entitled “United Nations Fund for International Partnerships”, the text of which, for the time being, is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft decision I was adopted. The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft decision II, entitled “Capital Master Plan”, the text of which, for the time being, is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft decision II was adopted. The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Syria, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote.
Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) (spoke in Arabic): My delegation abstained from voting on resolution 65/259 owing to our concerns regarding its section XIII, part of which pertains to the budget of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Implementation of Security Council Resolution 1559 (2004). In that context, we would like to indicate that Mr. Terje Roed-Larsen, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, has been exceeding his mandate under resolution 1559 (2004) through his involvement
in bilateral issues between two sovereign Member States, namely, Syria and Lebanon. Those issues involve the establishment of diplomatic relations and the demarcation of borders between those two States. He is also blatantly biased towards Israel, deliberately omitting information about it and concealing Israel’s failure to fulfil its obligations pursuant to resolution 1559 (2004), in particular its withdrawal from the occupied Lebanese territories. Special Envoy Larsen has deliberately misled the Security Council and the Secretariat through his feverish efforts to divert attention from the real problem that falls within his mandate, that is, putting an end to the Israeli occupation of the remaining Lebanese territories.
Worse still, the Special Envoy of the Secretary- General betrayed the trust placed in him by the Security Council through his efforts to entrench conflicts and perpetuate occupation in the name of international legitimacy, instead of seeking peace and the implementation of United Nations resolutions within his mandate. As if that were not enough, he also fabricates claims that are derived from suspect Israeli reports that lack credibility, without taking into consideration the fact that Israel is in a state of war and aggression with Lebanon.
The Special Envoy ignores the official positions of the Lebanese Government, which negate his claims. He does all of this with a view to serving the interests of Israel at the expense of security and stability in Lebanon and to attacking the special relations between the two neighbouring countries of Syria and Lebanon.
In that context, it is important to highlight paragraph 12 of resolution 63/261, which underlines the continued importance of the role of the Secretary- General in ensuring, when appointing his special representatives and envoys, the highest standards of integrity, competency, impartiality and professionalism. It seems, therefore, that the Special Envoy for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004) does not adhere to these standards.
My delegation’s objections to section XIII do not imply its objection to any of the remaining issues and items in the resolution, which we had supported and joined in the consensus thereon. Our objection is based solely on the concerns to which I have referred regarding section XIII, in particular the budget of the Special Envoy for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004). My delegation had hoped that the
A/65/PV.73
21 10-70481
resolution would have taken into account all of the concerns voiced by Member States, which would have led to its adoption by consensus, but that was not the case.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Lebanon.
Mr. Khachab (Lebanon) (spoke in Arabic): Under agenda item 129, the Fifth Committee considered the budgets of 29 special political missions, including two in Lebanon.
The first budget was that of the Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon, which is part of thematic cluster III referred to in document A/65/328/Add.3. We were pleased that the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions approved the budget and that it was adopted by the Fifth Committee, and subsequently by the General Assembly. Lebanon hopes that this will contribute to the implementation of all the provisions of resolution 1701 (2006); the cessation of all air, land and maritime violations of Lebanese sovereignty; and Israeli withdrawal from all remaining Lebanese occupied territories, namely, the northern part of Ghajar village, the Sheba’a farms and the Kfar Shouba hills. This withdrawal should be carried out in a manner that emphasizes full respect for Lebanon’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence. It should also result in the delivery of all maps for cluster bombs and mines planted by Israel in southern Lebanon.
The second budget was that of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004), which is part of thematic cluster I as contained in document A/65/328/Add.1. In that context, the delegation of Lebanon wishes to recall that, during the sixty-third session of the General Assembly, it requested the Department of Political Affairs to review the expected accomplishments and indicators of achievement in respect of that issue, taking into account the latest developments in Lebanon, and in particular to consider the continued occupation of the Sheba’a farms, the northern part of Ghajar village and the Kfar Shouba hills, as well as the daily Israeli violations of Lebanese sovereignty. Those are issues that fall within the expected indices of achievement on facilitating full respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of Lebanon, as well as the political independence of its Government and its authority over the totality of its territory.
We must also consider the defence policies underlying the national discussion initiated under the auspices of the President of Lebanon, as well as the positive developments that are taking place in relations between Lebanon and Syria. Lebanon would like to reiterate that none of the Secretary-General’s reports on the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006) refer to any evidence of weapons smuggling in the area of operations of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. Moreover, all the weapons that have been seized were remnants of the Israeli war against Lebanon in the summer of 2006. The Lebanese army and other Lebanese security agencies have not reported any weapons smuggling since the latest report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006).
The Lebanese delegation reasserts that future reports should take into account the following: efforts to prevent daily Israeli sea, land and air violations of Lebanese sovereignty and condemnation thereof; ending the Israeli occupation of the northern part of Ghajar village, the Sheba’a farms and the Kfar Shouba hills; and ensuring the full withdrawal of the Israeli army.
Finally, the matter of weaponry is an issue that will be addressed in the national dialogue that is to take place under the auspices of Lebanon’s President and in the context of the positive developments between Lebanon and Syria, such as the establishment of diplomatic relations and the exchange of ambassadors.
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 129.
Agenda item 128
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/645)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. For the time being, the texts of the draft resolutions are contained in documents A/C.5/65/L.24 and A/C.5/65/L.25. The Assembly will now take action on draft resolution I, entitled “Procurement”, which is currently contained in document A/C.5/65/L.24. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
A/65/PV.73
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 65/261).
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take action on draft resolution II, entitled “Proposed programme budget outlined for the biennium 2012- 2013”, which is currently contained in document A/C.5/65/L.25. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 65/262).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 128.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I would like to thank His Excellency Mr. Gert Rosenthal, Permanent Representative of Guatemala to the United Nations and Chairman of the Fifth Committee, members of the Bureau, the Secretary of the Committee and representatives, for a job well done.
The General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of all the reports of the Fifth Committee before it today.
Programme of Work
The Acting President: With regard to the programme of work of the General Assembly, apart from organizational matters and items that may have to be considered by operation of the rules of procedure of the Assembly, and bearing mind the consideration and actions that have already been taken by the Assembly on a majority of items, I should like to inform members that the following items on the agenda remain open for consideration during the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly: agenda items 9, 10, 12 to 15, 20 (i), 26, 29, 30, 33, 34, 36 to 40, 42 to 48, 51, 53, 60, 62, 63, 66, 69, 107 to 109, 112 (a) and (c), 113 (f), 114 to 121, 122 (a), (b), (i), (l), (n), (q), (r), (t) and (w), 123, 125 to 160 and 162. May I take that the General Assembly wishes to take note of those items on the agenda that remain open for consideration during the sixty-fifth session of the Assembly?
It was so decided. The Acting President: All that remains is for me to wish representatives happy holidays and the best in 2011.
The meeting rose at 4.40 a.m.
President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Switzerland)
The meeting was called to order at 5.10 p.m.
Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly
(b) Report of the Credentials Committee (A/65/583/Rev.1)
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor to the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to introduce the Committee’s report.
Mr. Menon (Singapore), Chairman of the Credentials Committee: In my capacity as Chairman of the Credentials Committee, I have the honour to introduce the Committee’s report contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1.
The Credentials Committee met on 16 November to examine the credentials of representatives of Member States to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. On the basis of that meeting, the Committee prepared the report contained in document A/65/583.
In the light of the events in Côte d’Ivoire since the elections on 28 November, the Committee met again on 22 December. At that meeting, the Committee decided by consensus to amend its report to the Assembly after considering the credentials submitted by Côte d’Ivoire on 22 December. The report of the Credentials Committee as amended is contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1 and is before the Assembly for consideration.
On behalf of the Credentials Committee, I have the honour to recommend to the General Assembly the adoption of the draft resolution contained in paragraph 12 of the report contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1.
I wish to take this opportunity to extend my sincere gratitude to all members of the Committee for their collegiality and for efficiently and constructively working towards the consensus on the report.
The President (spoke in French): The General Assembly will now consider the draft resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee in paragraph 12 of its report. We will now take a decision on it. The Committee adopted without a vote the draft resolution entitled “Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/237).
The President (spoke in French): I now give the floor to the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/237.
Mr. Salsabili (Islamic Republic of Iran): My delegation joined the consensus on the resolution just adopted, entitled “Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly” (resolution 65/237). However, I would like to express my delegation’s reservations on any part of the report
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 2
contained in document A/65/583/Rev.1 that may be construed as recognition of the Israeli regime.
The President (spoke in French): I call on the representative of Nigeria on a point of order.
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria): I had indicated my desire for the floor to request that the President postpone the adoption of the draft resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee. But it would appear that my raised hand was not seen. I would appreciate that being taken into consideration.
The President (spoke in French): I regret that this proposal was received too late. The representative of Nigeria should have placed his name on the Secretariat’s list of speakers.
I call on the representative of Namibia on a point of order.
Mr. Emvula (Namibia): It looks as if today’s change in the programme of work put some pressure on all of us such that we might not have been timely in making the point that we had wanted to take the floor. However, on behalf of the Southern African Development Community, I take the floor to support the request made by the representative of Nigeria. We received the report (A/65/583/Rev.1) of the Credentials Committee just a couple minutes ago. We would have wanted a little more time to reflect on it, as there are quite a number of issues that we as a delegation would have wanted to raise.
The President (spoke in French): I take note of the comments made by the representatives of Namibia and Nigeria. However, I once again regret that no request for the floor was transmitted to the Secretariat. As a result, the Assembly proceeded to take its decision.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3.
Statement by the President
The President (spoke in French): Before proceeding to the other items on our agenda for today’s meeting, I would like to take this opportunity to make some general comments as we approach the end of the main part of the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
I would first of all like to thank all delegations for their constructive collaboration and the spirit of
cooperation that prevailed during our deliberations. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Vice-Presidents and the Chairs of the six Main Committees for their leadership and valuable and crucial support in making it possible for the Assembly to carry out its work.
Among the highlights of the three to four past months, I would like to underscore the following aspects. First, I was greatly encouraged by how much the theme I proposed for the general debate — “Reaffirming the central role of the United Nations in global governance” — resonated among Member States. As members are aware, there were some practical illustrations of that following the general debate, in particular during the two informal plenary meetings held before and after the Group of Twenty (G-20) Summit in Seoul. I was very pleased to note that representatives of Member States used that opportunity to participate in discussions on issues concerning the G-20. I was especially heartened on 8 December by the adoption of resolution 65/94, entitled “The United Nations in global governance” — and all the more so because more than 100 Member States sponsored it.
Another highlight of this session was certainly last September’s High-level Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals. On that occasion, Member States, often in the person of their head of State or Government, reaffirmed their intention to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. I welcome the strong support expressed. The challenge now, of course, is to ensure that words are translated into action. I believe it is our role here in the General Assembly to monitor the activities associated with promises made.
Other high-level meetings were also held in September on various issues. In particular, I should like to highlight the High-level Meeting on Biodiversity, which was followed by the Nagoya Biodiversity Summit, where fortunately an important step forward was taken. The debate on small island developing States also comes to mind, which was important for all countries concerned in garnering the support we should give those States. Lastly, on 29 October, the Assembly adopted resolution 65/7, on the review of the United Nations peacebuilding architecture. As members are aware, that is a joint undertaking with the Security Council.
A/65/PV.73
3 10-70481
Looking forward to what awaits us early next year when we resume work, I believe that a key event will doubtless be the high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS. According to the modalities set out in resolution 65/180, that high-level meeting will take place from 8 to 10 June and will be preceded, no later than in April, by an informal interactive hearing with representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society and representatives of the private sector. I would like here to thank Ambassador Gary Quinlan of Australia and Ambassador Charles Ntwaagae of Botswana for their work on this matter and for their excellent cooperation in preparing that meeting.
The second chapter in our work to come will be to ensure progress in the internal reform of the Organization. I would first of all like to thank Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan for agreeing to continue to chair the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council reform. I would also like to thank Ambassador Dalius ýekuolis of Lithuania and Ambassador Camillo Gonsalves of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for co-chairing the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the General Assembly.
On the same subject of internal reform, there is also the issue of the review of the Human Rights Council. Ambassador Christian Wenaweser of Lichtenstein and Ambassador Mohammed Loulichki of Morocco are working hard on this issue. I would also like to thank Ambassador Octavio Errázuriz of Chile for serving as facilitator on the review of the Economic and Social Council. All those reviews must proceed. I believe that the we should be able to complete the reviews of the Economic and Social Council and the Human Rights Council during the course of the sixty- fifth session.
We will also work on the modalities and further preparation for the various high-level meetings that will take place in September 2011 during the Assembly’s sixty-sixth session. In that connection, I would like to thank Ambassador Raymond Wolfe of Jamaica and Ambassador Silvie Lucas of Luxembourg for kindly facilitating the preparation of the high-level meeting on the prevention and control of non- communicable diseases.
We will also hold a series of informal thematic debates, about which members have already received some information. At this stage in the preparations process, I can announce the following meetings. There
will be an informal plenary meeting on 14 January to hear a briefing by the Secretary-General on his priorities for 2011. There will be an informal debate on February on the issue of on disaster reduction. There will also be an informal thematic debate in early March so that the General Assembly can contribute to the preparations for the Istanbul conference on the least developed countries. The exact title and the dates will be announced later.
On 16 March there will be an informal interactive dialogue with President Tarja Halonen of Finland and President Jacob Zuma of South Africa, who are the co-Chairs of the High-level Panel on Global Sustainability. There will also be an informal thematic debate on 19 May on international migration, as called for in resolution 63/225. An informal debate on the green economy is tentatively scheduled for 26 May.
As I have mentioned on various occasions, I also intend to convene an informal thematic debate on the broader aspects of global governance, which is tentatively planned for 23 June. I also intend to convene an informal plenary meeting to continue the interaction between the General Assembly and the upcoming French presidency of the G-20. I hope that we will be able to schedule that meeting earlier in the year, given that this year we had no option but to hold it just a few days prior to the 2010 Summit. Conditions should be better this year, especially given that the French presidency has assured us of its full cooperation with the Assembly.
In conclusion, I would like once again to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership, dedication and, I must add, the excellent cooperation between himself and the presidency of the General Assembly. My thanks also go to the Secretariat staff, in particular the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management. As we are all aware, without their contribution the Assembly simply would not be able to function.
Finally, I would like to extend to all delegations, their staff, families and friends my best wishes for healthy and restorative holidays and a good start to the coming new year.
The Fifth Committee has not yet completed its work, but we hope that its formal meeting will take place this evening. This plenary meeting will resume once the Committee has completed its work.
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 4
In the absence of the President, Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 2.50 a.m. on 24 December.
Agenda item 115 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Draft resolution (A/65/L.50)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/660)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the General Assembly held a debate on agenda item 115 jointly with item 13 at the 40th and 41st plenary meetings, on 29 October 2010, as well as jointly with agenda items 13 and 120 at the 52nd plenary meeting, on 23 November 2010. Members will also recall that, under agenda items 13 and 115, the Assembly adopted resolution 65/7 at its 41st plenary meeting, on 29 October.
The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/65/L.50 is contained in document A/65/660.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.50, entitled “Scope, modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution A/65/L.50 was adopted (resolution 65/238).
The Acting President: I give the floor to the representative of France on a point of order.
Mr. Doré (France) (spoke in French): My delegation wishes to draw the Assembly’s attention to the absence of official language versions of the documents that have been submitted to us. We would like to call for strict respect for the rules and regulations governing the language regime established for the various organs and bodies of the United Nations. We understand the necessity of taking a decision this evening on the draft resolution, and thus to display the necessary flexibility; but we nonetheless wish to have our request recorded.
The Acting President: The Assembly takes note of the comments by the representative of France.
I now give the floor to the representative of Trinidad and Tobago, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/238.
Ms. Haynes (Trinidad and Tobago): I have the great honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the 14 member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) following the adoption of resolution 65/238, on the scope, modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. The adoption by consensus of this resolution underscores the General Assembly’s recognition of the need for urgent action by the international community to address the rising incidence and prevalence of these diseases worldwide.
Today, we have achieved yet another milestone leading up to the convening of the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases in September 2011. This success is owed to a number of important partners, without whom this feat would not have been accomplished.
At this juncture, CARICOM once again wishes to express its appreciation to the Secretary-General, the President of the General Assembly and the Secretariat for the valuable assistance provided thus far. We look forward to continued support as we move forward, particularly in relation to the finalization of arrangements for the high-level meeting. In the context of this resolution, CARICOM specifically commends the stewardship of the Permanent Representatives of Jamaica and Luxembourg, who capably led a challenging negotiation process to a successful outcome. CARICOM further appreciates the solidarity of member States of the Group of 77 and China, as well as the constructive engagement of all delegations, which facilitated agreement on the format and organization of this most important high-level meeting. Not least, CARICOM recognizes the support already received from the World Health Organization (WHO). We are positive that this close collaboration will be maintained throughout this process and beyond as we turn our attention to this pressing issue of global concern.
As we advance in our work, CARICOM anticipates the report of the Secretary-General on the global status of non-communicable diseases, with a particular focus on the developmental challenges faced
A/65/PV.73
5 10-70481
by developing countries. We expect the report to make an essential contribution to the preparatory process, which includes regional consultations and an informal interactive hearing with non-governmental organizations, civil society, the private sector and academia.
Finally, CARICOM remains committed to working with Member States, the Secretariat, WHO and relevant partners to ensure a successful high-level meeting on 19 and 20 September 2011, which will result in the adoption of a concise, action-oriented outcome document. In that regard, we await the preparation of the draft text of the document and urge all delegations to engage fully and constructively in this endeavour.
CARICOM also encourages participation in the high-level meeting at the level of heads of State and Government. We count on continued collaboration to guarantee that this significant event, to be comprised of plenary meetings and round-table discussions, will generate the requisite results to guide the development of strategic responses to non-communicable diseases and their repercussions.
The Acting President: I should like to express my sincere thanks to Ambassadors Raymond Wolfe of Jamaica and Sylvie Lucas of Luxembourg, who have so ably and patiently conducted the discussions and complex negotiations in the informal consultations. I also wish to thank all Member States for their valuable contributions to the successful finalization of the resolution we have just adopted.
The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 115.
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Follow-up to the commemoration of the two- hundredth anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade
Draft resolution (A/65/L.36)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/658)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly held a debate on this item at its 61st plenary meeting, on 9 December. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/65/L.36 is contained in document A/65/658.
I give the floor to the representative of Jamaica.
Ms. Wilson (Jamaica): As the hour is late, I will be very brief. I have the honour to inform the General Assembly that since the introduction, on 9 December, of the draft resolution entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”, contained in document A/65/L.36, the following countries have become sponsors of the draft resolution: Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, the Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay. That brings the total number of sponsors to 146 countries.
I wish to draw the General Assembly’s attention to the statement made by the representative of Trinidad and Tobago on behalf of the member States of the Caribbean Community on 9 December (see A/65/PV.61) in introducing the draft resolution we are about to adopt. In particular, I take this opportunity to reiterate that, as a result of informal consultations among Member States, we reached an agreement to make some changes to paragraph 10, to make it clear that the panel of judges to be appointed for the international design competition would not be restricted solely to persons or specialists linked to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, since we prefer to adopt a broad, inclusive approach for the competition. We hope that the Secretariat will make the necessary revision to the document in short order, taking into account the agreement reached among Member States.
The paragraph should therefore read as follows:
“Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to assist the committee in defining guidelines for the selection process and in identifying qualified candidates, including from its pool of international specialists to serve on the international jury.”
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 6
During the General Assembly’s consideration of this agenda item, we heard repeated statements from many delegations affirming the importance of this issue. It is therefore heartening that the Fifth Committee has approved sustainable funding for the annual commemorative events, traditionally held in March, to honour the memory of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade.
At the request of some Member States, and in the interest of transparency and accountability, the draft resolution includes a paragraph requesting the United Nations Office for Partnerships, through the Secretary- General, to submit a comprehensive report to the General Assembly on the status of the Trust Fund, and in particular on contributions received and their utilization. That request is once again reflected in paragraph 13 of the text before the Assembly today. In that connection, I wish to draw the Assembly’s attention to document A/65/605, which fulfils that request.
In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to all those who constructively engaged in the informal consultations on the draft resolution. I am confident that, like similar ones in the past, the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus, in particular in view of the strong support shown by Member States. Finally, let me express particular appreciation to the Member States of Africa and the Caribbean Community, which continue to play a primary role in advancing the permanent memorial initiative under the theme we have adopted for our initiative, namely, “Acknowledging the tragedy and considering the legacy, lest we forget”. Indeed, we thank all those Member States that have sponsored the draft resolution and supported this initiative.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take action on draft resolution A/65/L.36, entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”, as orally revised.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.36, as orally revised?
Draft resolution A/65/L.36, as orally revised, was adopted (resolution 65/239).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 116.
Reports of the Third and Fifth Committees
The Acting President: The General Assembly will now take up the remaining reports of the Third Committee on agenda item 66 and sub-item (c) of agenda item 68. Immediately thereafter, the Assembly will consider sub-item (e) of agenda item 122. Thereafter, the Assembly will take up the reports of the Fifth Committee on agenda items 127 and 130, 132 to 134, 136 to 138, 139 together with 128, 140 to 142, 144, 147 together with 148, 153 and 157.
If there is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of the Third and Fifth Committees that are before the Assembly today.
It was so decided. The Acting President: Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of vote. The positions of delegations regarding the recommendations of the Third and Fifth Committees have been made clear in the Committees and are reflected in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that:
“When the same draft resolution is considered in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote only once, that is, either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, unless that delegation’s vote in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance with decision 34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Before we begin to take action on the recommendations contained in the reports of the Third and Fifth Committees, I should like to advise representatives that we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner as was done in the Committees, unless notified otherwise in advance.
A/65/PV.73
7 10-70481
Agenda item 66 (continued)
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow- up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/65/454)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/659)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it draft resolution III, recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 27 of its report. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of the draft resolution is contained in document A/65/659.
We shall now take a decision on draft resolution III, entitled “Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against: Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Netherlands, Palau, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining: Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Cyprus, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Samoa, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Tonga, Ukraine
Draft resolution III was adopted by 104 votes to 22, with 33 abstentions (resolution 65/240).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 66.
Agenda item 68 (continued)
Promotion and protection of human rights
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/65/456/Add.3)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/657)
The Acting President: We shall now take action on draft resolution II, recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 25 of its report. The report of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications the draft resolution is contained in document A/65/657.
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 8
We will now take a decision on draft resolution II, entitled “Situation of human rights in Myanmar”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palau, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay
Against: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Brunei
Darussalam, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Oman, Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahrain, Barbados,
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Haiti, Jordan, Kuwait, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Namibia, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Swaziland, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Zambia
Draft resolution II was adopted by 85 votes to 26, with 46 abstentions (resolution 65/241).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Indonesia advised the Secretariat that it had intended to abstain.]
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Myanmar, who wishes to speak in explanation of position following the adoption of resolution 65/241.
Mr. Swe (Myanmar): My delegation wishes to express our deep appreciation to Member countries that have upheld genuine human rights principles, despite intense external pressure from a handful of countries, either by casting a negative vote or by abstaining. Nevertheless, it is a known fact that the politicization and heavy-handed approach of some countries made it more difficult for some Member States to freely express their own will to vote against this biased and ill-intended resolution.
It is noteworthy to point out some developments that have recently taken place in Myanmar. First, the general election was held smoothly and peacefully. Secondly, all delegations that have recently visited Myanmar personally witnessed that peace and stability prevail in almost every corner of our country. In summary, the European Union’s country-specific resolution, which has just been adopted, totally neglects the positive accomplishments achieved by the Myanmar Government in the past two decades. We therefore voted against this highly politicized country-specific resolution. At the same time, we dissociate ourselves from the resolution and will not be bound by it.
Despite all those facts, I would like to reaffirm that, in conformity with Myanmar’s foreign policy, we will continue to cooperate with the United Nations and the good offices role of the Secretary-General.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 68 and of agenda item 68 as a whole?
It was so decided.
A/65/PV.73
9 10-70481
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of all the reports of the Third Committee.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other organizations
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and the Caribbean Community
Draft resolution (A/65/L.54)
The Acting President: Members will recall that the Assembly held the debate on agenda item 122 and its sub-items (b) to (w) at its 63rd and 64th plenary meetings, on 13 December.
I now give the floor to the representative of Trinidad and Tobago to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.54.
Ms. Haynes (Trinidad and Tobago): In the interests of time, I shall deliver a shortened version of my statement. The full text is available in the copies that are being distributed.
The Agenda for Development (see resolution 51/240, annex), adopted by the Assembly in 1997, states that few, if any, societies can pursue all aspects of development unaided. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) States are proof of that truism, as a result of a number of factors relating to our history, geography and the structure of the international economy.
In 1994, by virtue of resolution 49/141, the General Assembly urged the specialized agencies and other organizations and programmes of the United Nations system to cooperate with the Secretary- General of the United Nations and the Secretary- General of the Caribbean Community in order to initiate, maintain and increase consultations and programmes with the Caribbean Community and its associated institutions in the achievement of their common objectives.
Draft resolution A/65/L.54, which I have the privilege to introduce today on behalf of the 14 member States of the Caribbean Community and several States that have generously agreed to join us in sponsoring it, describes the current status of that cooperation. At this juncture, I must express our appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and to the specialized agencies for demonstrating, through their continuing cooperation with our States, the vitality of the principle of cooperation for the common good.
CARICOM particularly values those aspects of cooperation that aim at building capacity in the region. While capacity-building may not be the silver bullet where development is concerned, there is no denying the relationship between technological innovations and the competitive use of knowledge, on the one hand, and the reduction of poverty, on the other.
In that regard, I draw special attention to four directions of that capacity-building thrust, as contained in the draft resolution. The first is found in paragraph 6, which focuses on the work that is done by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The second is found in paragraph 8, which focuses on the work that is done by the United Nations Development Programme. The third is found in paragraph 9, which focuses on the work done with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. And the fourth is found in paragraph 10, which focuses on the cooperation that we have had with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
The second major thrust of our cooperation with the United Nations aims at improving the quality of life in the region. In that regard, I draw attention to paragraph 11, which contains our appeal to organizations of the United Nations system to step up their assistance to us as we confront the scourge of HIV/AIDS in the region. Despite some gains recorded as a result of anti-retroviral treatment, HIV/AIDS continues to be a significant cause of mortality in the region. We need more help in coping with that challenge.
In the same context, I also draw attention to paragraph 12, which is motivated by our profound concern about the harmful effects on our societies of the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. In that paragraph, we repeat our call for the reopening of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in the region so as to reinforce our efforts in the struggle against that hydra-headed phenomenon.
The third major thrust of our cooperation aims at strengthening cooperation in order to make the international development framework more sensitive
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 10
and responsive to the development needs of our countries. That concern is expressed principally in paragraphs 4 and 16.
The draft resolution also addresses two specific initiatives that CARICOM States have taken on behalf of all humankind. The first of those is reflected in paragraphs 13 to 15, where we express our appreciation to the Department of Public Information for the cooperation extended to our States in the implementation of the annual commemoration, on 25 March, of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade. We believe that the desecration of humankind at any one time or in any one region is the desecration of humankind everywhere.
The second initiative, reflected in paragraph 17, calls on the United Nations, including its specialized agencies, organizations and programmes, to assist the preparatory process for the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases and to provide support to Member States in the lead-up to that meeting, scheduled to be held in New York in September 2011.
On a procedural note, we welcome, in paragraph 19, the scheduling in 2011 of the sixth general meeting to be held between representatives of the Caribbean Community and of the United Nations, which will review and appraise the progress made in the implementation of the agreed areas of cooperation.
In conclusion, on behalf of the CARICOM group of States, I express sincere thanks to those States that have seen fit to join us in sponsoring the draft resolution. We trust that all other States will see in it an instrument that is deserving of their enthusiastic support.
The Acting President: We will now proceed to consider draft resolution A/65/L.54. I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly and Conference Management): In connection with draft resolution A/65/L.54, entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Caribbean Community”, I wish to put on record the following statement of financial implications on behalf of the Secretary- General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
Under the terms of paragraphs 12, 14 and 17 of the draft resolution, the General Assembly would stress
the urgent need for the reopening of the office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in the region so as to reinforce the efforts of the States of the region in their struggle against the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons; request the Department of Public Information, in cooperation with the countries concerned and relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, to continue to take appropriate steps to enhance public awareness worldwide of the commemorative activities and the permanent memorial initiative, and to continue to facilitate efforts to erect the permanent memorial at United Nations Headquarters, in keeping with paragraph 9 of resolution 64/15; and call upon the United Nations, including its specialized agencies, organizations and programmes, to assist in the preparatory process for the high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases and to provide support to Member States, as appropriate, leading up to the high- level meeting to be held in New York in September 2011.
With respect to paragraph 12, relating to the reopening of the office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, additional extra budgetary resources will be needed in order to reinforce the efforts of the States of the region in their struggle against the interrelated scourges of drugs, violent crime and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. With effect from February 2011, a crime prevention expert will be posted to the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) secretariat in Georgetown, Guyana, and a law enforcement adviser will be posted to the CARICOM Implementation Agency for Crime and Security secretariat in Trinidad and Tobago. Based on that new presence in the region, UNODC will make every effort to further strengthen its presence.
It is the understanding of the Secretary-General that the request in paragraph 14 is in line with the terms under paragraphs 6 and 7 of resolution 65/239, entitled “Permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”. Should the draft resolution be adopted, the Department of Public Information has already indicated that, in connection with it, it would organize a series of activities annually to commemorate the International Day of Remembrance, including an exhibition and screening of films touching on the theme, a student video conference and a cultural event and/or concert
A/65/PV.73
11 10-70481
celebrating culture and arts relating to the remembrance of slavery, as well as various educational outreach resources.
The increased scope of activities would involve additional resources amounting to $251,500 — $239,400 under section 27, “public information” and $12,100 under section 36 “staff assessment”, to be offset by the same amount under Income Section I, “Income from Staff Assessment” of the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011. In line with rule 153 of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General has issued a statement on the programme budget implications of resolution 65/239 (see A/C.5/65/11 and A/C.5/65/11/Corr.1) which, as just approved, would be applied to facilitate the implementation of draft resolution A/65/L.54.
With respect to paragraph 17, the Assembly’s adoption of the draft resolution would not have conference-servicing implications under section 2, “General Assembly and Economic and Social Council affairs and conference management”, as there is no additional request for meetings and no indication of additional documentation requirements. Accordingly, notwithstanding earlier comments on paragraph 14, the adoption of draft resolution A/65/L.54 would not entail any additional requirements under the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. I again give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly and Conference Management): I should like to announce that since its introduction, the following countries have also become sponsors of draft resolution A/65/L.54: Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, Congo, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Fiji, Georgia, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Micronesia, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Swaziland, Thailand, Timor-Leste, the United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay and Vanuatu.
The Acting President: May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.54?
Draft resolution A/65/L.54 was adopted (resolution 65/242).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (e) of agenda item 122?
It was so decided.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The President: The General Assembly will now consider the reports of the Fifth Committee on agenda items 127 to 130, 132 to 134, 136 to 142, 128 together with 139, 144, 147 together with 148, 153 and 157.
I request the Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee to introduce in one intervention the reports of the Fifth Committee before the Assembly.
Ms. Mannion (Ireland), Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee: I have the honour today to present to the General Assembly the reports of the Fifth Committee containing recommendations on issues that required action during the main part of the Assembly’s sixty- fifth session. The Fifth Committee met from 30 September to 23 December and held 27 plenary meetings and approximately 130 rounds of informal consultations and numerous informal-informal consultations.
With regard to agenda item 127, entitled “Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors”, in paragraph 8 of its report contained in document A/65/594, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 130, entitled “Programme Planning”, in paragraph 7 of its report contained in document A/65/544, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution on programme planning, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 132, entitled “Pattern of conferences”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/595, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 133, entitled “Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations”, in paragraph 6 of its report
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 12
contained in document A/65/492/Add.1, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Concerning agenda item 134, entitled “Human resources management”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/647, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
With regard to agenda item 136, entitled “United Nations common system”, in paragraph 7 of its report contained in document A/65/648, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
The report of the Fifth Committee under agenda item 137, entitled “United Nations pension system”, is contained in document A/65/633. The draft resolution recommended for adoption by the Committee is contained in paragraph 8 of the report. The Committee adopted it without a vote.
Agenda item 138 is entitled “Administrative and budgetary coordination of the United Nations with specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency”. The Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/543, the adoption of a draft decision, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
Under agenda items 139, entitled “Report on the activities on the Office of Internal Oversight Services”, and 128, “Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/649, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution on the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on its activities, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 140, entitled “Administration of justice at the United Nations”, the Committee, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/650, recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
The report of the Committee on agenda item 141, entitled “Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994”, is contained in document A/65/651. In paragraph 6 of the report, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Under agenda item 142, entitled “Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/652, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 144, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/653, the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Under agenda items 147 and 148, entitled, respectively, “Financing of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo” and “Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/654, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Regarding agenda item 153, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/655, the adoption of a draft resolution, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
On agenda item 157, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan”, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/656, the adoption of a draft resolution, which it adopted without a vote.
Regarding agenda item 129, entitled “Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”, in paragraph 6 of its report contained in document A/65/646, the
A/65/PV.73
13 10-70481
Committee recommends to the Assembly the adoption of a draft resolution entitled “Conditions of service and compensation for officials other than Secretariat officials: members of the International Court of Justice and judges and ad litem judges of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda”, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
In its report contained in document A/65/646/Add.1, the Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of two draft resolutions and two draft decisions, respectively. Draft resolutions I and II relate to questions relating to the programme budget for the 2010-2011 biennium. The Committee adopted without a vote draft decision I, which deals with the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships. The Committee also adopted without a vote draft decision II, which deals with the Capital Master Plan.
Also with regard to agenda item 129, the Committee considered four statements on programme budget implications. Document A/C.5/65/L.20 contains the four draft decisions concerning programme budget implications. The Committee adopted the draft decision under section C by a recorded vote of 102 in favour, 17 against and 33 abstentions. The Committee adopted without a vote the three draft decisions in the other sections. Document A/C.5/65/L.22 contains 19 draft resolutions on questions relating to the programme budget for the 2010-2011 biennium. The Committee adopted document A/C.5/65/L.22 by a recorded vote of 144 in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. The Committee recommends to the Assembly the adoption of those draft resolutions. The reports of the Fifth Committee on the programme budget implications of each of those draft resolutions are contained in documents A/65/657 to A/65/660.
Finally, under agenda item 128, entitled “Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations”, in paragraph 8 of its report contained in document A/65/645, the Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of two draft resolutions, entitled “Procurement” and “Proposed programme budget outline for the biennium 2012-2013”, which the Committee adopted without a vote.
I wish to thank delegations for their cooperation, and to assure them that the changes made in the course
of the Fifth Committee’s 27th formal meeting have been duly taken into account and will be reflected in the draft resolutions and reports, which will be issued shortly.
Before I conclude, allow me, on a brief personal note, to thank the Chair of the Fifth Committee, Ambassador Gert Rosenthal of Guatemala, for the wise and noble way in which he guided us through our difficult work, as well as my fellow Bureau members, working with whom is always a truly gratifying experience. I also express my thanks to Ms. Susan McLurg, Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions. To all of those with whom I have had the privilege and honour to be seated next to at the podium of Conference Room 3, I would like to thank them for their camaraderie.
Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the staff of the Fifth Committee secretariat for their invaluable assistance and hard work during this session. I wish everyone a wonderful holiday.
The Acting President: I thank the Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee.
Before proceeding further, I would like to emphasize to representatives that, as the Fifth Committee has just finished its work, its reports are available in English only. It is my understanding that they will be issued in all languages as soon as possible. I thank members for their understanding.
Agenda item 127
Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/594)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/243).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 127.
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 14
Programme planning
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/544)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/244).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 130.
Agenda item 132 (continued)
Pattern of conferences
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/595)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/245).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 132.
Agenda item 133 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/492/Add.1)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/246).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 133.
Agenda item 134
Human resources management
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/647)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.15. We will now take action on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/247).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 134.
Agenda item 136
United Nations common system
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/648)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.16. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “United Nations common system: report of the International Civil Service Commission”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/248).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 136.
A/65/PV.73
15 10-70481
Agenda item 137
United Nations pension system
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/633)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/249).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 137.
Agenda item 138
Administrative and budgetary coordination of the United Nations with the specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/543)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft decision recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take action on the draft decision, entitled “Budgetary and financial situation of the organizations of the United Nations system”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft decision was adopted. The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 138.
Agenda items 128 and 139
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations
Report on the activities of the Office of Internal Oversight Services
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/649)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in
document A/C.5/65/L.9. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/250).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda items 128 and 139.
Agenda item 140
Administration of justice at the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/650)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.17. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/251).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 140.
Agenda item 141
Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/651)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.18. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 16
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/252).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 141.
Agenda item 142
Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/652)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.19. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/253).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 142.
Agenda item 144
Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/653)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.11. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/254).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 144.
Agenda items 147 and 148
Financing of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/654)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.12. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo”. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/255).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda items 147 and 148.
Agenda item 153
Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/655)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.13. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/256).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 153.
A/65/PV.73
17 10-70481
Agenda item 157
Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/656)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.14. The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/257).
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 157.
Agenda item 129
Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/646 and A/65/646/Add.1)
The Acting President: We shall first turn to document A/65/646. The Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. For the time being, the draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.21. We will now take a decision on the draft resolution, entitled “Conditions of service and compensation for officials other than Secretariat officials: members of the International Court of Justice and judges and ad litem judges of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.” The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 65/258).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to the report of the Fifth Committee contained in document A/65/646/Add.1. The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Fifth Committee in its report and two draft decisions recommended in the same report. We shall first turn to draft resolution I. For the time being, the text of the draft resolution is
contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22. Draft resolution I is entitled “Questions relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”.
I shall first give the floor to representatives who wish to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mr. Bayat Mokhtari (Islamic Republic of Iran): My delegation has asked for the floor to explain its vote on the draft resolution contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22, which is now before the General Assembly, as we cannot join any consensus to recognize any mechanism to enforce unlawful sanctions against my country.
The Islamic Republic of Iran regards Security Council resolution 1929 (2010) and other related resolutions adopted to impose sanctions on Iran as unjust and unlawful. It is our firm belief that these resolutions are crafted based on false speculation and misinformation propagated by some to advance their political ambitions, which are to deprive a developing country and a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of its inalienable right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
In my delegation’s view, using the financial and human resources of the Organization, paid for by the contributions of Member States, for a panel of experts is unlawful. My delegation therefore cannot allow a consensus on an issue that jeopardizes the national security of my country.
Nevertheless, my delegation would like to make it clear that Iran’s no vote on this draft resolution should not be interpreted as disagreement with other provisions of the draft resolution, where adopted by consensus.
Mr. Cumberbatch Miguen (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Given the lateness of the hour and in the interest of time, my delegation will shorten its explanation of vote. We have already delivered a more extensive statement during the proceedings of the Fifth Committee.
My delegation would like to make it clear that its vote against section XIII of the draft resolution currently contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22 has to do with to our position with respect to accepting the logical framework proposed by the Secretariat in document A/65/328/Add.1 for the work of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 18
Genocide — which, as currently formulated, constitutes a clear violation of all the rules and procedures of the General Assembly dealing with strategic frameworks and the presentation of narratives in budgetary documents. The Secretariat has inferred that the reports it produces constitute legislative mandates. That is unacceptable.
The Assembly has not endorsed — in any of its resolutions — the idea that the concept of the responsibility to protect is part of the main mandates of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide. The Assembly has not agreed — in any of its resolutions — that the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General for the Responsibility to Protect is part of the office in question.
Although we understand that some delegations support the concept of the responsibility to protect, it is also true that the many legitimate concerns that this issue raises cannot be ignored. There is a real danger that the responsibility to protect will end up being manipulated covertly by certain parties who seek to justify, in various ways, the use of force and interfering in others’ affairs.
The irresponsible action of the Secretariat has led to an institutional crisis. Those who have forced the decision to endorse the logical framework presented to us are already aware that there is no longer any consensus possible on the concept of the responsibility to protect. The Secretariat and those who support it have poisoned the process in the plenary of the General Assembly, which debates this matter. The logical framework that was presented to us can never again be adopted without a vote.
The reality is that we do not have a clear and universally accepted definition of the responsibility to protect. It is therefore unacceptable to attempt, through a budgetary and programmatic document, to ignore and prejudge the decisions that are taken on this issue in the General Assembly and to force issues that do not enjoy consensus in the Assembly.
These are the reasons for which our delegation will vote against section XIII in particular. In this context, our vote pertains solely to the logical framework of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide.
Mrs. Giménez-Jiménez (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): My delegation would
like to state for the record that our vote against section XIII of the draft resolution contained in document A/C.5/65/L.22 pertains solely to the concerns with regard to the Office of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide.
In that regard, my delegation has continually expressed its concern about the change made in the logical framework of the Office of the Special Adviser referred to in document A/65/328/Add.1, which has attempted to include in the mandate of the Office issues that do not enjoy intergovernmental consensus. This represents a grave mistake in terms of the administrative procedures governing the allocation of the Organization’s resources. We believe that those resources should only be used to implement mandates that have been agreed upon at the intergovernmental level.
A little over a year ago, the General Assembly held the first substantive debate on the responsibility to protect. At that time, Member States agreed on only one point, namely, the need to continue to evaluate and address the concept of the responsibility to protect.
However, the presentation of the strategic framework for the Office of the Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide puts into practice suggestions contained in the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Early warning, assessment and the responsibility to protect” (A/64/864). No action was taken by the General Assembly as a result of that document, but it is now reflected in the Office of the Special Adviser as a fait accompli — implementing activities, establishing priorities and extending the mandate of the Special Adviser.
This approach presupposes that the concept of the responsibility to protect has been agreed upon and accepted. Unfortunately, we must emphasize that seeking to impose a generalized agreement on the concept of the responsibility to protect is, colloquially speaking, to put the cart before the horse.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela would like to reiterate that the main responsibility to protect falls to States. The international community can therefore play a constructive role by supporting national efforts, while always respecting the provisions of the United Nations Charter and safeguarding the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States.
A/65/PV.73
19 10-70481
Mr. Rosales Díaz (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): Given the lateness of the hour, I shall confine myself to referring members to my delegation’s statements in the Fifth Committee. My delegation would also like to align itself with the statements made by the representatives of Cuba and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
The Acting President: A separate recorded vote has been requested on section XIII of draft resolution I, which I shall now put to the vote.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam
Against: Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba,
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Myanmar, Nicaragua, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe
Abstaining: Botswana, Gabon, Japan, Senegal, Solomon
Islands, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic
Section XIII of draft resolution I was retained by 119 votes to 9, with 7 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegations of Botswana and Japan advised the Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: I shall now put to the vote draft resolution I as a whole. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
A/65/PV.73
10-70481 20
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against: Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Abstaining: Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
Myanmar, Syrian Arab Republic
The draft resolution was adopted by 142 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions (resolution 65/259).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft resolution II, entitled “Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011”. For the time being, the text of that draft resolution is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 65/260).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft decision I, entitled “United Nations Fund for International Partnerships”, the text of which, for the time being, is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft decision I was adopted. The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft decision II, entitled “Capital Master Plan”, the text of which, for the time being, is contained in document A/C.5/65/L.23. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft decision II was adopted. The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Syria, who wishes to speak in explanation of vote.
Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) (spoke in Arabic): My delegation abstained from voting on resolution 65/259 owing to our concerns regarding its section XIII, part of which pertains to the budget of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Implementation of Security Council Resolution 1559 (2004). In that context, we would like to indicate that Mr. Terje Roed-Larsen, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, has been exceeding his mandate under resolution 1559 (2004) through his involvement
in bilateral issues between two sovereign Member States, namely, Syria and Lebanon. Those issues involve the establishment of diplomatic relations and the demarcation of borders between those two States. He is also blatantly biased towards Israel, deliberately omitting information about it and concealing Israel’s failure to fulfil its obligations pursuant to resolution 1559 (2004), in particular its withdrawal from the occupied Lebanese territories. Special Envoy Larsen has deliberately misled the Security Council and the Secretariat through his feverish efforts to divert attention from the real problem that falls within his mandate, that is, putting an end to the Israeli occupation of the remaining Lebanese territories.
Worse still, the Special Envoy of the Secretary- General betrayed the trust placed in him by the Security Council through his efforts to entrench conflicts and perpetuate occupation in the name of international legitimacy, instead of seeking peace and the implementation of United Nations resolutions within his mandate. As if that were not enough, he also fabricates claims that are derived from suspect Israeli reports that lack credibility, without taking into consideration the fact that Israel is in a state of war and aggression with Lebanon.
The Special Envoy ignores the official positions of the Lebanese Government, which negate his claims. He does all of this with a view to serving the interests of Israel at the expense of security and stability in Lebanon and to attacking the special relations between the two neighbouring countries of Syria and Lebanon.
In that context, it is important to highlight paragraph 12 of resolution 63/261, which underlines the continued importance of the role of the Secretary- General in ensuring, when appointing his special representatives and envoys, the highest standards of integrity, competency, impartiality and professionalism. It seems, therefore, that the Special Envoy for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004) does not adhere to these standards.
My delegation’s objections to section XIII do not imply its objection to any of the remaining issues and items in the resolution, which we had supported and joined in the consensus thereon. Our objection is based solely on the concerns to which I have referred regarding section XIII, in particular the budget of the Special Envoy for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004). My delegation had hoped that the
A/65/PV.73
21 10-70481
resolution would have taken into account all of the concerns voiced by Member States, which would have led to its adoption by consensus, but that was not the case.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the representative of Lebanon.
Mr. Khachab (Lebanon) (spoke in Arabic): Under agenda item 129, the Fifth Committee considered the budgets of 29 special political missions, including two in Lebanon.
The first budget was that of the Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon, which is part of thematic cluster III referred to in document A/65/328/Add.3. We were pleased that the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions approved the budget and that it was adopted by the Fifth Committee, and subsequently by the General Assembly. Lebanon hopes that this will contribute to the implementation of all the provisions of resolution 1701 (2006); the cessation of all air, land and maritime violations of Lebanese sovereignty; and Israeli withdrawal from all remaining Lebanese occupied territories, namely, the northern part of Ghajar village, the Sheba’a farms and the Kfar Shouba hills. This withdrawal should be carried out in a manner that emphasizes full respect for Lebanon’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence. It should also result in the delivery of all maps for cluster bombs and mines planted by Israel in southern Lebanon.
The second budget was that of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Implementation of Resolution 1559 (2004), which is part of thematic cluster I as contained in document A/65/328/Add.1. In that context, the delegation of Lebanon wishes to recall that, during the sixty-third session of the General Assembly, it requested the Department of Political Affairs to review the expected accomplishments and indicators of achievement in respect of that issue, taking into account the latest developments in Lebanon, and in particular to consider the continued occupation of the Sheba’a farms, the northern part of Ghajar village and the Kfar Shouba hills, as well as the daily Israeli violations of Lebanese sovereignty. Those are issues that fall within the expected indices of achievement on facilitating full respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of Lebanon, as well as the political independence of its Government and its authority over the totality of its territory.
We must also consider the defence policies underlying the national discussion initiated under the auspices of the President of Lebanon, as well as the positive developments that are taking place in relations between Lebanon and Syria. Lebanon would like to reiterate that none of the Secretary-General’s reports on the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006) refer to any evidence of weapons smuggling in the area of operations of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. Moreover, all the weapons that have been seized were remnants of the Israeli war against Lebanon in the summer of 2006. The Lebanese army and other Lebanese security agencies have not reported any weapons smuggling since the latest report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006).
The Lebanese delegation reasserts that future reports should take into account the following: efforts to prevent daily Israeli sea, land and air violations of Lebanese sovereignty and condemnation thereof; ending the Israeli occupation of the northern part of Ghajar village, the Sheba’a farms and the Kfar Shouba hills; and ensuring the full withdrawal of the Israeli army.
Finally, the matter of weaponry is an issue that will be addressed in the national dialogue that is to take place under the auspices of Lebanon’s President and in the context of the positive developments between Lebanon and Syria, such as the establishment of diplomatic relations and the exchange of ambassadors.
The Acting President: The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 129.
Agenda item 128
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/645)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 8 of its report. For the time being, the texts of the draft resolutions are contained in documents A/C.5/65/L.24 and A/C.5/65/L.25. The Assembly will now take action on draft resolution I, entitled “Procurement”, which is currently contained in document A/C.5/65/L.24. The Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
A/65/PV.73
