Etpu09-37053 (E)    010709 *0937053*
Report of the Security Council mission to the African Union; Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo; and Liberia
I. Introduction
1. The present report of the Security Council mission to Africa from 14 to 21 May 2009 has three sections, covering the Council’s visits to the African Union; Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and Liberia. Each section ends with specific recommendations to the Security Council, the parties involved and the international community. The present report follows the briefing to the Council by heads of the Security Council mission to Africa on 28 May 2009.
2. In his letter dated 12 May 2009 (S/2009/243), the President of the Security Council informed the Secretary-General that the members of the Council had decided to send a mission to Africa from 14 to 21 May 2009. The segment of the mission to the African Union was jointly led by the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations, Ambassador John Sawers, and the Permanent Representative of Uganda to the United Nations, Ambassador Ruhakana Rugunda. The Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations led the segment to Rwanda, while the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations, Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert, led the segment to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations, Ambassador Susan Rice, led the segment to Liberia. The composition and terms of reference of the mission are set out in annex I to the present report.
II. African Union
A. Background and context
3. The Security Council’s visit to Addis Ababa fell within the framework of cooperation between the Security Council and the African Union under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. Meetings were held with the African Union Peace and Security Council and with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Jean Ping, and the Commissioner for Peace and Security, Ambassador Ramtane Lamamra. The members of the Security Council also met with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi. In addition, the Council members had the
S/2009/303
09-37053 2
opportunity to meet with the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General to the Great Lakes region, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, regarding the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region, which is summarized in section II of the present report.
B. Meeting with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission and the Commissioner for Peace and Security
4. The Chairperson of the African Union Commission welcomed the increased links between the Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council, the importance that the Security Council places on African questions, and its tradition of making field visits to gain a direct sense of the issues on the agenda of the Council.
5. Concerning Somalia, the members of the Security Council underscored their unanimous support for the work of the African Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), and the Burundian and Ugandan troops that presently composed it. The Council was considering the extension of the AMISOM mandate for an additional eight months. However, the Council was very concerned at the precariousness of the present situation, which had further deteriorated in the days leading up to the Council members’ travel to Addis Ababa. The Council had adopted a presidential statement (S/PRST/2009/15), in which it expressed its deep concern further to the latest round of fighting in Somalia, which it saw as a direct attempt to challenge the Djibouti Agreement.
6. Commissioner Lamamra noted that the African Union Commission shared many of these concerns. While the political situation in Somalia had been evolving positively, there had been a series of negative developments on the security front. Although AMISOM had not been attacked in the recent fighting, a large number of civilians had been killed and insurgent forces, though repelled, were reportedly regrouping. While AMISOM had a strong mandate, it lacked the capabilities to respond robustly. Uganda and Burundi were both ready to deploy further battalions. But the additional battalion pledged by Sierra Leone would take a minimum of three months to deploy. Some members of the Council also raised concerns regarding the alleged sources of external support to the insurgency in Somalia, and in particular from Eritrea.
7. Concerning the Sudan, the members of the Council underlined their concern about the continued serious challenges, both with respect to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the situation in Darfur, where the expulsion of a number of international non-governmental organizations had rendered an already difficult humanitarian situation critical. In this regard, the Council stressed the need to ensure the continuity of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population throughout the Sudan. The Council was encouraged by the work of the joint African Union-United Nations Chief Mediator for Darfur, Yipéné Djibrill Bassolé. It was more urgent than ever to build up the peacekeeping capacity in Darfur. Council members acknowledged that there were different views on how best to fight impunity in this context, but all were firmly in agreement concerning the importance of that fight.
8. Chairperson Ping underlined that the situation in the Sudan also remained a constant concern for the African Union. The situation must be addressed holistically,
S/2009/303
3 09-37053
taking into account the challenges of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) deployment, of the need for justice, and of relations between northern and Southern Sudan, among others. He pointed out that in an earlier communiqué, the African Union had regretted that the Sudanese Government had placed obstacles in the path of the UNAMID deployment. He further noted that constant and discreet pressure from the African Union had helped to clear some of those obstacles. On justice, the African Union had pressed the Government to consider the organization of a domestic judicial process. The African Union would continue to support all initiatives towards dialogue in this regard, including the recently launched initiative by Qatar. Finally, on the NGO expulsions, the African Union suggested that a tripartite structure to examine this matter might be established, comprising the African Union, the United Nations and the Government of the Sudan.
9. In closing, Chairperson Ping briefly raised the African Union Commission’s concern at the growing threat of the drugs trade on peace and security of the West African region, including in Guinea-Bissau, and that Africa would require international assistance to combat it. He also called attention to the growing maritime threat to oil platforms in the Guinea Gulf with parallels to the challenge of piracy off the Somali coast.
C. Third Consultative Meeting with the African Union Peace and Security Council
10. The third consultative meeting between the members of the Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council was intended to further the development of an effective partnership and enhance cooperation through an exchange of views on matters of mutual interest. The agenda included a discussion of the situation in the Sudan, the situation in Somalia, the resurgence of unconstitutional changes of Governments, and the financing of peacekeeping operations in Africa. At the outset of the meeting, which was co-chaired by the Permanent Representative of Burundi to the African Union, the Chairperson of the African Union Peace and Security Council, and the Permanent Representatives of the United Kingdom and Uganda to the United Nations, in their capacities as co-leads of the Council’s mission to the African Union. It was agreed, after some discussion, that the meeting of the two bodies should be considered as the third in a sequence of similar consultative meetings between the Peace and Security Council and the Security Council which took place in 2007 and 2008. It was agreed that there should be further reflection on the modalities for the organization of these discussions.
11. Turning to the situation in the Sudan, the mission began by noting that UNAMID, as a hybrid operation between the African Union and the United Nations, was a concrete expression of the commitment of the two organizations to partnership. The members of the Council stressed the need to ensure the continuity of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population throughout the Sudan. The Sudan was now entering a critical phase, with elections planned in 2010 and a referendum in 2011. As such, the Sudanese parties should be strongly encouraged to overcome any obstacles to the full implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. Concerning relations between Chad and the Sudan, the African Union Peace and Security Council had met on 8 May, following the outbreak of renewed
S/2009/303
09-37053 4
conflict between rebel groups and the Chadian Government, and issued a communiqué deploring armed group attacks in eastern Chad and renewing its condemnation of any attempt at an unconstitutional change of Government in the country. The President of the Security Council had also made a statement on the same issue on 5 May 2009 (S/PRST/2009/11).
12. The members of the Council expressed serious concern regarding the humanitarian situation in the Sudan, with the rainy season in prospect and the expulsion of the international NGOs having radically reduced the capacity to meet assessed and critical needs. Overall, a dual track was needed, combining both political and peacekeeping initiatives. The recent announcement by the Sudanese Government of a timetable for elections was a welcome development — the conduct of free and fair elections and referendums was a vital dimension of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. Within the Council, there was unanimity on the need to fight impunity, even if there were some differences on how to move towards that goal. Another Council member raised the question of the International Criminal Court indictment against Sudanese President Omar El-Bashir, noting that a middle position needed to be found, reconciling the imperatives of peace and justice. On Chad, the Council members underlined that any attempt to destabilize a sovereign Government was unacceptable.
13. On Somalia, the African Union Peace and Security Council considered that while there had been some progress on the political front, the security situation was once more of considerable concern. The Somalis urgently needed to be provided with the strength to ensure their own security; the Transitional Federal Government needed to be exempted from the existing arms embargo so it could effectively counter the present insurgency; and a full United Nations peacekeeping operation should be deployed as early as possible. In the meantime, the United Nations support to AMISOM should be fast-tracked, as should the financial support pledged at the recent donors’ conference in Brussels.
14. The members of the Council considered that the situation in Somalia was precarious. Following the recent presidential statement (S/PRST/2009/15), some members of the Council expressed further concern over reports of flows of arms and fighters from Eritrea, in violation of the arms embargo. The Council was also presently considering a new resolution, which would provide a logistical support package to AMISOM through assessed contributions from the States Members of the United Nations.
15. The members of the Council shared the view that the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping operation would be important when the conditions were right. It was noted that, consistent with Security Council resolution 1853 (2008), some exemptions could be granted by the Security Council Sanctions Committee in order to train and equip the Transitional Federal Government and its security forces.
16. Turning to the question of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa, the African Union indicated that it had taken a very strong position against a number of recent such changes in Government. The Security Council had also adopted a presidential statement on 5 May 2009 (S/PRST/2009/11), in which it expressed concern at the possible violence that might accompany such events, and welcomed the efforts of the African Union to settle conflicts and promote constitutional order in Africa; the Council also welcomed the decision of the twelfth Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union, held from 1 to 3 February 2009, in which the
S/2009/303
5 09-37053
Assembly had expressed the African Union’s concern and condemnation of the resurgence of coups d’état.
17. Finally, the discussion turned to the financing of peacekeeping operations in Africa, and the report of the African Union-United Nations panel on modalities for support to African Union peacekeeping operations (the “Prodi report”) (S/2008/813, annex) in particular. The Peace and Security Council proposed that a joint commission be established between the African Union and the United Nations to examine the Prodi report recommendations and to look at funding for their implications. With the economic crisis and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals at risk, it was not realistic to expect African nations to place major financial means at the disposal of peacekeeping efforts. A possible Security Council resolution authorizing assessed contributions to support AMISOM would, therefore, be greatly welcomed. The members of the Council underlined that it took very seriously the need to support the development of African peacekeeping, as demonstrated through the unique support package being developed for AMISOM. They noted that a report of the Secretary-General, including concrete recommendations in that regard, was expected by mid-September. All were agreed that there was an imperative to find better financial mechanisms, and this had been the genesis of the “Prodi panel”, the African Union-United Nations panel chaired by Romano Prodi, former Prime Minister of Italy.
18. Following the conclusion of the substantive discussion, the members of the Security Council and the Peace and Security Council together adopted a joint communiqué, which is reproduced in annex II to the present report.
D. Meeting with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi
19. During their visit to Addis Ababa, the members of the Council also met with Meles Zenawi, the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, and discussed the situations in Somalia and the Sudan, and the recent difficulties between Eritrea and Djibouti. The Prime Minister indicated that he did not consider the situation in Somalia to be irreversible. AMISOM, however, would need urgently to be consolidated. Several members of the Council asked what more might be done to stem the reported arms flows from Eritrea.
20. On the Sudan, the members of the Council raised concern regarding obstacles to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and to the peace process in Darfur, as well as with respect to the expulsion of the international NGOs and the indictment of President El-Bashir by the International Criminal Court. The Prime Minister expressed concern regarding the slow implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and increasing instability in Southern Sudan. He also regretted the “see-sawing” of rebel movements between Chad and the Sudan over many years.
21. On Eritrea and Djibouti, the Prime Minister expressed the hope that Eritrea would take measures to resolve the differences between the two countries. He encouraged the Security Council to put pressure on Eritrea in that regard.
S/2009/303
09-37053 6
E. Recommendations
22. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and the conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
(a) Emphasizing the importance that the Security Council places on its cooperation with the African Union to address with effectiveness pressing matters of peace and security on the African continent, that the Security Council pursue further consultations with the African Union on ways and means to strengthen their cooperation;
(b) That the Security Council should continue to work closely with the African Union Peace and Security Council to strengthen further and enhance their cooperation, particularly in the prevention and resolution of conflicts, peacekeeping and peacebuilding, including the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law and constitutional order in Africa;
(c) In particular, that the Security Council work closely with the Peace and Security Council to agree upon the optimum modalities for the organization of their consultations, including their next consultative meeting in New York, in 2010, at a date to be agreed upon;
(d) With reference to the report of the African Union-United Nations panel on modalities for support to African Union peacekeeping operations, including the funding of African Union-led peace support operations, that the Security Council should carefully consider the recommendations of the forthcoming report to be submitted by the United Nations Secretary-General no later than 18 September 2009, in accordance with the statement by the President of the Security Council of 18 March 2009 (S/PRST/2009/3), together with the African Union input to that report;
(e) In the light of the recent adoption of a presidential statement on the issue of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa (S/PRST/2009/11), that the Security Council reflect on whether further measures may prove necessary at an appropriate moment, including in support of the African Union’s own efforts to address such situations on the continent;
(f) That the Security Council remain actively seized of the deteriorating situation in Somalia, that it consider further measures to strengthen AMISOM, including through supporting steps to accelerate the deployment of additional battalions and through the possible adoption of enhanced mechanisms to ensure that AMISOM receives the necessary financial support in a sustained manner, and that it review whether further action may be necessary in response to reports of external support to insurgent groups, in violation of the existing arms embargo on Somalia;
(g) That the Security Council, working closely with the African Union, strongly encourage the Sudanese parties to overcome any obstacles to the full implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, continue to provide all political and other support to the work of the Joint African Union-United Nations mediation in Darfur, under the leadership of the Joint African Union-United Nations Chief Mediator, Mr. Bassolé, and take further steps to accelerate the deployment to full strength of UNAMID and to support the implementation of the UNAMID mandate.
S/2009/303
A. Background and context
23. The Council’s mission to Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo took place following recent major developments that significantly reshaped the security and political landscape in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region. In this regard, the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Uganda agreed to work together to address the issue of the armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo which pose a threat to the stability for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the region. Following the events of October-November 2008, when the renewed fighting between the Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) and Congrès national pour la défense du peuple (CNDP) in North Kivu reached a critical point, CNDP announced, in January 2009, the change of its leadership; the end of hostilities with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and its agreement to integrate, alongside other Congolese armed groups, into FARDC. These undertakings were consolidated in the agreements of 23 March signed between the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, CNDP, and the other armed groups operating in the Kivus, which were concluded under the auspices of former President of Nigeria, General Olusegun Obasanjo, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Great Lakes Region, together with his Co-Facilitator, the former President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa. In parallel, and against the backdrop of improved relations between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, the two countries began joint military operations against the Forces démocratiques de liberation du Rwanda (FDLR) on 20 January 2009.
24. On 25 February, the day after the conclusion of the joint Democratic Republic of the Congo-Rwanda military operations and the departure of the Rwanda forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and FARDC reached agreement on a joint plan to carry forward FARDC-led operations against FDLR in the Kivus. The operation, entitled “Kimia II”, aimed to pursue the neutralization of FDLR by preventing it from reoccupying former positions and by cutting its lines of economic sustenance. Kimia II began shortly thereafter in North Kivu, with MONUC support. In the meantime, on 26 January, CNDP and other armed groups in North Kivu began an accelerated integration into FARDC. The newly integrated units were deployed throughout North Kivu to undertake the Kimia II operations.
25. In an effort to limit the humanitarian consequences of the military effort, and in accordance with its mandate, MONUC also focused on efforts to protect civilians. On the military side, this involved deploying up to 40 company operating bases and temporary operating bases in areas of known and assessed threat throughout North Kivu. At the same time, MONUC piloted a new concept of civilian joint protection teams which were deployed alongside many of the company operating bases and temporary operating bases to enhance coordination between the humanitarian and military communities on protection issues, and improve information-sharing and awareness-raising with the local population.
26. The Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo operation resulted in a marked increase in the repatriation to Rwanda of FDLR combatants and their
S/2009/303
09-37053 8
dependents, as well as civilians. Since the beginning of the year nearly 8,000 Rwandans have returned. Of these, between January and February 2009, some 1,198 FDLR ex-combatants and their dependents took advantage of facilitated repatriation opportunities offered by MONUC and the demobilization and reinsertion programmes provided by the Government of Rwanda. Since then, a further 481 were repatriated as a result of Kimia II as at 1 May.
27. In Province Orientale, the Ugandan rebel group, the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) exacted heavy reprisals against populations in Haut and Bas Uélé following the start of the joint Uganda-Democratic Republic of the Congo-Southern Sudan operations on 14 December 2008. Since the departure of the Uganda forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, MONUC has continued to support FARDC-led operations against LRA, and has redeployed assets including two attack helicopters and one battalion to enhance efforts to protect civilians. At the same time, increased militia activity in Ituri in the months preceding the visit of the members of the Council also necessitated MONUC support to FARDC-led operations there.
28. Against this backdrop, the resignation on 25 March of Vital Kamerhe, the former Speaker of the Democratic Republic of the Congo National Assembly who had criticized President Kabila’s decision to allow Rwandan troops into North Kivu, resulted in a further realignment in favour of the Presidential majority within the legislature. While preparations for the planned local elections were under way, the ability and will to conduct them in a timely manner before the scheduled 2011 national elections remained unclear at the time of the visit of the members of the Council.
29. In that context, the tenth mission of the members of the Security Council to the Great Lakes region aimed to express the Council’s strong support for the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, and to encourage them to continue reinforcing their political, military and economic cooperation, including with respect to stemming the illegal trafficking of natural resources, in order to guarantee the long-term stabilization of the Great Lakes region. The members of the Council also wished to stress the importance of reinvigorating the spirit of the Goma and Nairobi processes that, together with the 23 March agreements, constitute a viable framework to resolve the issue of the ongoing presence of Congolese and foreign armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
30. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the mission sought to emphasize the primary importance it attaches to protecting civilians, including with respect to sexual violence and children associated with armed groups, as well as combating impunity and respect for human rights. The members of the Council aimed to emphasize the responsibility of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in that regard, while reaffirming its full support to MONUC. The Security Council mission also sought to underline the need to enhance efforts to fight impunity and ensure that those responsible for serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law are brought to justice, including at a high level within FARDC. The mission wished to emphasize, in this regard, the imperative to address the scourge of sexual violence, which continues to exact a horrendous toll on the women and girls of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
31. Another important element which the members of the Council aimed to underscore was the need to intensify efforts to reform the security sector, including
S/2009/303
9 09-37053
immediate measures that could be taken to reform the army in the light of the integration of large numbers of CNDP and other armed group elements into FARDC, as well as with respect to the reform of the Congolese police (PNC). While recognizing the major challenge this will involve, the mission sought to underline that the international community was prepared to increase and better coordinate its support for Congolese efforts that were based on a sustainable and realistic strategy in that regard.
32. In terms of MONUC, the members of the Council wished to reaffirm its support for the work undertaken by the Mission in what remains one of the most complex and intricate environments ever faced by a peacekeeping mission. At the same time, the Council members aimed to seek the views of Government and MONUC interlocutors regarding the parameters of the MONUC mandate, its performance, and the future of the Mission, including with respect to its eventual drawdown and the progressive handover of its tasks in western Democratic Republic of the Congo, which was requested by the Council in resolution 1856 (2008).
B. Meeting with the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Great Lakes Region, former President Olusegun Obasanjo
33. The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General noted that much progress had been achieved since his last briefing to the Security Council in New York in January 2009. In his view, the normalization of relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda was proceeding steadily. In eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, while the humanitarian situation remained difficult, there had been some improvements since the decision by CNDP and other armed groups to integrate into the Congolese armed forces, and the arrest of Laurent Nkunda. However, the situation remained fragile. At the operational level, salaries, support and logistics for the newly integrated ex-combatants remained uncertain. At the political level, challenges also remained, including with respect to the transformation of CNDP and of other armed groups into political parties.
34. The Special Envoy and his Co-Facilitator had in this context focused on providing political encouragement and exerting pressure on the parties through regular consultations with the Presidents and Government officials in Kinshasa and Kigali, as well as key stakeholders in the Kivus. Such follow-up, including through the aegis of the international follow-up committee established under the 23 March 2009 agreements signed in Goma, had already yielded concrete results, including the creation of the National Follow-Up Committee envisaged in the agreements; the passage of the Law on Amnesty on 12 May; the April meetings between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to discuss modalities for refugee return; the meeting in May between the Governors of North and South Kivu as well as those from neighbouring provinces in Rwanda, Burundi and the United Republic of Tanzania; steps towards the removal of the remaining “parallel administrations” in parts of North Kivu by CNDP; and discussions regarding modalities for the release of CNDP political prisoners.
35. The Special Envoy also noted progress at the bilateral and regional levels. At the bilateral level, the “Four plus Four” Commission, bringing together the Foreign Ministers and Army Chiefs of Staff of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
S/2009/303
09-37053 10
Rwanda, continued frequent meetings. The joint Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo military operations against FDLR had helped to build confidence, and both Presidents had expressed their satisfaction to the Special Envoy regarding their political outcome. On the diplomatic front, the joint operations had also generated momentum for further discussions in the Four plus Four Commission towards both deepening economic cooperation and renewing formal diplomatic relations. On 7 May, Rwanda designated an Ambassador to Kinshasa, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo shared a list of possible Ambassadors to Kigali with Rwanda. The Democratic Republic of the Congo also recently made known its choice for the position of Deputy Head of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. It was now important to concentrate on restoring full confidence. In the Special Envoy’s view, the relationship between the two Presidents would need continued encouragement, and it might now be opportune for the two leaders to meet again, perhaps on the margins of the next summit of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, which is planned to take place in Zambia in June. At the regional level, the Special Envoy had remained in regular contact with President Kibaki, in his capacity as International Conference on the Great Lakes Region Chair, had briefed a wide cross-section of regional Heads of State, and had recently briefed President Ghadafi, in his capacity as Chairperson of the African Union. Special Envoy Obasanjo also noted his intention to help the leaders of the region revive the Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
36. Looking ahead, Special Envoy Obasanjo outlined six priorities, namely, the consolidation of the newly integrated armed forces into the Congolese army, including through regular payment of salaries; concerted military, political, and legal actions against FDLR; the overall implementation of the 23 March agreements, backed by targeted international support; additional steps to strengthen the confidence between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo; further international support to building institutions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and a focus on security sector reform in particular; and ensuring the continued engagement of Great Lakes leaders and the African Union, including the implementation of the “Stability Pact”. The Special Envoy also suggested that a donors’ conference could be held in the coming months to raise additional resources in support of recovery, the extension of State authority and security sector reform.
37. Members of the Council congratulated the Special Envoy and his Co-Facilitator on the success so far achieved, and again welcomed the rapprochement between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbours. They encouraged him to continue his work to help the region’s leaders to deepen and consolidate that rapprochement. They further pointed to the need to bring the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s natural resources fully under the control of the State, to the benefit of its population, the need to pursue efforts to help the Democratic Republic of the Congo to acquire a professional army, and on the vital necessity of vetting mechanisms to prevent those known to have violated human rights and committed acts of sexual and gender-based violence from holding positions within it.
S/2009/303
C. Meetings in Kigali
38. In Rwanda, the Security Council mission, led by the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations, Ambassador John Sawers, met in Kigali with President Paul Kagame and Rosemary Museminali, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The members of the Council also had the opportunity to visit the Genocide Memorial at Gisozi, a stark reminder of the horrific events of 1994, the consequences of which continue to affect the subregion. The mission also visited a demobilization centre in Mutobo, where they met with recently demobilized FDLR ex-combatants who told the members of the Council their stories of life in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and expressed their appreciation for the opportunity to return to normal life in Rwanda.
39. President Kagame expressed his view that the marked difference in the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo in the last six months, compared to the previous 15 years, was a result of increased ownership of the problem posed by the continued presence of FDLR in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He was encouraged by the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, which had led to what he considered to be very effective joint Democratic Republic of the Congo-Rwanda military operations against FDLR in January and February 2009.
40. In the President’s assessment, the joint operations had contributed to an improvement in the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in North Kivu. However, he felt that there was still a lot to be achieved and that the joint operation would have required more time to accomplish in full its desired results. The President expressed hope that the Rwandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo Governments could find more grounds to continue to work together to address the problem of FDLR. President Kagame also noted the need to work with the international community to tackle the root causes of the problems in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and not just the consequences, including the recruitment of child soldiers, sexual violence and the illegal exploitation of natural resources.
41. In President Kagame’s view, one of the root causes of the problem was the absence of effective State authority in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the overall lack of governance and institutional capacity, which contributed to the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In this regard, he firmly refuted all accusations that Rwanda was involved in any exploitation of natural resources from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That point, among others, was emphasized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who in addition welcomed Security Council resolution 1857 (2008), by which the Council strengthened the linkages between the illegal exploitation of natural resources and sanctions.
42. In terms of the present situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, President Kagame expressed concern that the momentum generated by the joint Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo military operation had not been sustained and that the follow-on operations led by FARDC had not yet been as effective as desired, with FDLR returning to locations from where they had been dislodged and carrying out attacks against civilians, creating further displacements.
S/2009/303
09-37053 12
He encouraged the Security Council to consider reviewing the MONUC mandate and strength so as to streamline and focus its activities on addressing the root causes of the problem. President Kagame also confirmed Rwanda’s readiness to participate in future joint operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo against FDLR.
43. These points were echoed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who urged the Council to implement its resolution 1804 (2008), providing for the imposition of sanctions against leaders of FDLR who, often from their home bases in Europe or North America, perpetuate the hate and fear that impedes the rank and file from returning and reintegrating normal life in Rwanda. In that connection, while welcoming the measures taken in March 2009 against four senior FDLR leaders, she urged the Council to initiate a thorough investigation of the list of 19 suspects which Rwanda had submitted to the Security Council Sanctions Committee.
44. The Foreign Minister also informed the members of the Council of recent efforts undertaken by Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to solidify the improvement in their bilateral relations. She highlighted the recent appointment by Rwanda of its first Ambassador to Kinshasa, Amandin Rugira, since diplomatic ties between the two countries were severed in 1998. In addition, the Foreign Minister noted that Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo had reached agreement, in the context of the Four plus Four Commission, to develop a joint plan aimed at continuing cooperation on dealing with FDLR. The Foreign Minister noted that such cooperation could include the provision of military training to the FARDC. The members of the Council were also informed of concrete measures that had been taken to broaden and deepen relations at the regional level, including with respect to the revitalization of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Region and the meeting in May of the Governors of the subregion, which the countries involved had agreed would now take place twice a year.
45. The Foreign Minister also indicated Rwanda’s readiness for the transfer of International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda cases to the Rwandan justice system. She also stressed the Rwandan Government’s request that the Tribunal’s archives be transferred to Rwanda.
46. The members of the Council welcomed the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, which all agreed had had an important impact on the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. They encouraged a broadening and deepening of the relationship, and welcomed the concrete measures outlined by Rwanda in that regard. The mission also welcomed President Kagame’s reaffirmation that Rwanda stood ready to be part of the solution in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and to participate as necessary in the efforts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Government to address them.
47. The status of the peace process in Burundi was also raised with the President and Foreign Minister, especially in the light of the expected withdrawal in June of the South African contingent that comprises the African Union Special Task Force.
D. Meetings in Goma
48. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Security Council mission led by the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations, Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert, visited Kinshasa and Goma. In Goma, the members of the
S/2009/303
13 09-37053
Council met with the Governor of North Kivu, Julien Paluku, and senior FARDC and PNC officials including several auditeurs militaires. The mission also received briefings by MONUC regarding the ongoing military operations against FDLR, the Forces de résistance patriotiques en Ituri (FRPI) and LRA, as well as the United Nations Support Strategy for Stabilization and Security for Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition, Council members met with the humanitarian community, including local NGOs. The Council mission travelled to Kiwanja Internally Displaced Person camp where they met with local authorities, internally displaced persons, and MONUC, including a joint protection team based there. Security Council members also met with victims of sexual violence at the HEAL Africa hospital.
49. Overall, the members of the Council agreed that recent developments in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the subregion were encouraging and had the potential to address one of the root causes of the conflict in the Kivus, namely, the question of the continued presence of foreign armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The developments also opened new opportunities to make progress on a number of pressing issues that have contributed to instability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the much needed reform of the Congolese army and the restoration of State authority.
50. However, the mission observed that the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remained fluid and volatile. Operations against FDLR had been accompanied by an increase in threats and attacks against civilians by the armed group in both North and South Kivu, where planning had been completed at the time of the members of the Council’s visit, but the military effort had yet to begin. The humanitarian situation also remained dire in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, with fresh displacements of populations in the Kivus, as well as in Ituri and Haut and Bas Uélé.
51. The integration of CNDP and other armed groups into FARDC had also not been unproblematic. A key concern observed by the members of the Council was that many of the newly integrated FARDC elements had yet to receive their salaries, supplies and equipment. As a result, some desertions from the FARDC ranks had been reported. More widely, they noted the urgent need to undertake root and branch reform of the security sector, beginning with the army, including as a key factor determining the eventual drawdown of MONUC.
52. The visit of the members of the Council to HEAL Africa hospital was a stark reminder of the scourge of sexual violence, and of the consequences of the ongoing conflict and pervasive impunity in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. Horrendous stories were shared by those who had been victimized at times repeatedly and always brutally. In this connection, the Council members were informed that a list of five names of senior commanding officers within FARDC believed to be responsible for serious crimes had been submitted to Government authorities, without follow-up. The lack of properly functioning prisons throughout the country significantly affects the fight against impunity since very often those found responsible for crimes, including sexual violence, were able to escape incarceration.
53. The members of the Council also observed first-hand some of the challenges faced by MONUC in one of the most challenging peacekeeping contexts. While welcoming the increased clarity which resolution 1856 (2008) had brought to the
S/2009/303
09-37053 14
MONUC mandate, including regarding the use of force, the Council noted that the situation in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo had revealed the at times competing imperatives of protecting civilians and supporting FARDC-led military operations that had inevitable humanitarian consequences. In some instances, elements of FARDC itself were the source of human rights violations. In this connection, the rapid deployment of the additional capabilities authorized by resolution 1843 (2008) would nonetheless enhance the Mission’s protection of civilians effort. They were informed that the deployment of those capabilities would begin in July 2009.
54. In this context, at the outset of the mission’s meeting with senior members of FARDC and PNC, FARDC officials noted that peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had come at the expense of a professional Congolese army owing to the need to regularly absorb illegal armed elements into its ranks. This also contributed to the pervasive lack of discipline among its troops. FARDC and PNC welcomed their close cooperation with and support from MONUC, and requested additional support in that regard. The FARDC officials also underlined the importance of security sector reform, particularly with respect to the army, but noted the practical challenges of making progress on this issue given the ongoing military operations in the Kivus, Ituri and Haut and Bas Uélé. However, MONUC maintained the view that training and active operations could be conducted simultaneously and reiterated its request that FARDC make use of two training centres the Mission had established for FARDC.
55. The members of the Council welcomed the cooperation between MONUC and both FARDC and PNC, and urged a continued focus on deploying well-trained and equipped police forces as part of the re-establishment of State authority and normalization of security functions in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. More broadly, the mission underscored the importance of making tangible progress on security sector reform, including with respect to justice. The urgent need to increase the number and deployment of judges to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and establish functioning military prison facilities was also underlined.
56. The meeting between members of the Council and the Governor of North Kivu provided an opportunity for the Governor to outline several priorities for the Council’s consideration, including encouraging the improved relationship between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda on political, economic and security issues; accelerating the implementation of the Prime Minister’s Stabilization Plan for Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including to ensure the re-establishment of State authority; security sector reform, including immediate measures that could boost FARDC performance in the Kimia II operations; sensitization of FDLR to encourage their disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, reintegration and rehabilitation; and support for concrete measures to prevent the illegal exploitation of natural resources.
57. The members of the Council also received a briefing on the humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The mission was reminded that while the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remained dire, basic human development indicators throughout the country area were among the lowest in the world. In North Kivu, 250,000 people were newly displaced as a result of the recent fighting, among a total of 900,000 displaced civilians in the province.
S/2009/303
15 09-37053
In a positive development however, 300,000 people had recently returned to areas formerly occupied by CNDP.
58. Council members were presented with five consolidated recommendations on behalf of the humanitarian community: encourage MONUC to condition its support to FARDC on the implementation of a mechanism to vet known abusers of human rights violations from among its ranks, including at the commanding levels; hold the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo accountable in the fight against impunity; enhance disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement or reintegration efforts to encourage voluntary repatriation of FDLR; appoint a Special Rapporteur on Sexual Violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and accelerate the deployment of the additional capabilities for MONUC authorized by resolution 1843 (2008).
59. The Council members’ visit to Kiwanja provided a first-hand opportunity to observe the practical application of the MONUC protection of civilians mandate. The Security Council mission was informed of the protection activities carried out by MONUC, which have been put in place since the start of the year, including the establishment of quick reaction teams, and an extensive early warning local network throughout the area of responsibility, which had reduced the reaction time of MONUC in the zone where this innovation was being tested to less than 10 minutes. The Security Council mission was also briefed in detail on the work of the joint protection teams, and their contribution to enhancing the protection of civilians. The mission also visited a camp for internally displaced people adjacent to the MONUC position in Kiwanja and met with representatives of civil society in the area.
E. Meetings in Kinshasa with the President, the Government and parliamentary institutions
60. In Kinshasa, the mission met with President Joseph Kabila Kabange, Prime Minister Adolphe Muzito and key Government ministers, including the Ministers of Defence, Foreign Affairs, Interior, Planning, Human Rights, Family and Gender, Finance and Economy. The mission met with the President of the Senate, Léon Kengo wa Dongo, and the recently elected Speaker of the National Assembly, Evariste Boshab and members of both chambers. They also held a working lunch with Abbé Malu Malu, the head of the Independent Electoral Commission, the diplomatic community, the United Nations country team, and private sector representatives, during which they received briefings on the planned local elections and the macroeconomic situation. In furtherance to resolution 1856 (2008), the Council mission received a briefing from MONUC on the development of its Strategic Workplan.
61. President Kabila stated that, in his view, the situation had evolved positively since the last visit of the Council to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in June 2008. Relations with neighbouring countries, in particular Rwanda and Uganda, had improved and reached a level where in his assessment they could only continue to evolve positively. Noting that the recent joint operations with Rwanda against FDLR and with Uganda against LRA had been successful, the President indicated that the operations would continue by the Congolese army until those two foreign armed groups had been eradicated. He expressed an intention to continue to cooperate with the neighbouring countries in this regard through regular exchange
S/2009/303
09-37053 16
of information, and welcomed emerging concrete opportunities to enhance their political and economic cooperation. The Prime Minister, along with both chambers of Parliament, echoed the President in welcoming the joint operations against the foreign armed groups, and expressed their full support for the rapprochement between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and other neighbouring countries.
62. In their meetings with the Security Council mission, both the President and Prime Minister noted that efforts were under way to tackle the conditions in which armed groups emerged and thrived in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including with respect to stemming the illegal trade of natural resources and re-establishing State authority. Prime Minister Muzito stressed that the deterioration in the economic and financial situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had made this effort more challenging, and expressed the hope that the international community would contribute to the Prime Minister’s Stabilization Plan for eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including through accelerated implementation of the United Nations Support Strategy for Security and Stabilization in Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
63. The President, the Prime Minister, cabinet ministers, and the Parliament all agreed on the urgent need to make tangible progress on security sector reform. President Kabila noted that, in his view, the international community had focused on national elections, while support on security sector reform had been less than expected. He urged the provision of resources and technical support on that critical issue.
64. Regarding the scourge of sexual and gender-based violence, the President reiterated his view that addressing the problem of the continued presence of illegal armed groups would have an important impact on the incidence of sexual violence. The President and the Prime Minister committed to concrete measures to tackle impunity among the Congolese security forces, including with respect to following up on the five cases of senior FARDC commanding officers which had been submitted to the Government. It was also noted that the Senate and the National Assembly were working closely with the Government on judicial legislation to better enable the State to sanction and prevent human rights violations, including with respect to sexual and gender-based violence.
65. In this connection, the Minister of Justice outlined specific measures adopted by the Government to combat impunity, including planned trials relating to crimes of sexual violence to be held in North Kivu and recent improvements with respect to military justice, including the first prosecutions of elements of the elite Republican Guard and the decision by a military court to award reparations to be paid by the State to rape victims for unlawful acts committed by elements of FARDC. The Minister of Justice also informed the members of the Council of training initiatives aimed at increasing the number of magistrates in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which currently number 1 for every 30,000 people. At the same time, President Kabila reiterated his view on the need to pursue justice before peace to ensure the consolidation of stability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
66. Council members were also informed by the Minister of Family and Gender of several concrete measures relating to sexual violence, including the establishment of a Government agency dedicated to women and children affected by sexual violence, a fund aimed at preventing and dealing with the consequences of sexual violence,
S/2009/303
17 09-37053
and the development, in collaboration with the United Nations, of a comprehensive strategy on sexual and gender-based violence.
67. The Prime Minister, along with both chambers of the Parliament, underlined the importance of holding the planned local elections in a timely manner. Regarding pending legislation relating to the law establishing an authoritative list of territorial entities, which should become the electoral constituencies, the President of the Senate expressed the view that the local elections could proceed on the basis of the existing laws in that regard. Some members of the opposition of the National Assembly noted that discussion was ongoing regarding the law relating to the establishment of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the successor body to the Independent Electoral Commission, which had been established in the context of the 2006 national elections. The Prime Minister, along with the Parliament, indicated that the deterioration in the economic and financial situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had affected the Government’s ability to commit resources to the process, which had also contributed to some slippage in the timeline. They encouraged the international community to fill the resource gap to ensure that local elections would be held in a timely manner.
68. Concerning MONUC, the President expressed appreciation for the role of the Mission, which had accompanied the peace consolidation process through some key milestones, including the organization of the national elections in 2006. While both President Kabila and Prime Minister Muzito welcomed the continued presence of MONUC in its current configuration for the next two years, President Kabila encouraged the Council to begin consideration of the eventual drawdown of MONUC, including an elaboration of prerequisites in that regard. In the immediate term, Prime Minister Muzito encouraged MONUC to continue to redeploy its efforts towards eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and focus on the protection of civilians. The Prime Minister also outlined the specific expectations of his Government with regard to MONUC and the Security Council, namely, the timely deployment of the additional capabilities authorized by the Council, greater engagement on disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement or reintegration and security sector reform, facilitation of humanitarian assistance for displaced and other vulnerable populations, a complete lift of the arms embargo on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and support for the planned local elections.
69. Throughout the meetings in Kinshasa, Council members welcomed the measures taken by the Democratic Republic of the Congo to broaden and deepen the improved relations with Rwanda and other neighbouring countries. They urged the Government to continue to prioritize security sector reform and the extension of State authority in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The mission also welcomed the Government’s commitment to take concrete steps to address impunity, including with respect to follow-up on the list of five FARDC commanding officers believed to be responsible for human rights violations. The President assured the Security Council mission that the necessary action would be taken with regard to those five. The Council members also strongly urged the Government and the Parliament to work together to accelerate the passage of the draft law required to enable the reform of the police.
70. At the Council’s request, the mission also received a briefing on the development of the MONUC Strategic Workplan. The Strategic Workplan, which
S/2009/303
09-37053 18
was shared with the members of the Council, outlines priority actions and benchmarks in relation to the principal elements of the MONUC mandate on the basis of resolution 1856 (2008). The Workplan is based on two main transitional phases: (a) the deployment of the additional capabilities authorized in resolution 1843 (2008) for MONUC in support of stabilization in the Kivus, Haut and Bas Uélé and Ituri until mid-2010, after which consideration could be given to the drawdown of the MONUC military assets; and (b) the handover to the United Nations country team and other partners of selected MONUC functions in the western provinces within a 6 to 24 month period. In this regard, MONUC outlined key transition milestones, including continued stability in western Democratic Republic of the Congo; key advances in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, leading to the end of combat activities; advances in security sector reform, whereby FARDC progressively assumes security responsibilities from MONUC; and local elections held by early 2010. These conditions would enable the MONUC force to transition from area domination to a more mobile and concentrated response stance. Assuming that the planned general elections in 2011 would be organized and protection provided by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo with limited MONUC support, various scenarios could then be envisaged for the drawdown of the MONUC force, taking into consideration the above milestones.
F. Recommendations
71. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
Regional cooperation
(a) The Security Council strongly encourages the Governments in the region, in particular the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, to continue to build on the positive momentum created by their recent improved relations and to continue to take measures aimed at building confidence between them and laying the foundations for sustainable regional cooperation, including through the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. It welcomes the appointment of a Rwandan ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and encourages the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to expedite the appointment of its ambassador to Rwanda;
(b) Within the framework of the Four plus Four Commission and the Nairobi communiqué of 9 November 2007, the Security Council also encourages the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda to continue to work jointly to address the issue of FDLR in a comprehensive manner;
(c) Special Envoy Obasanjo and Co-Facilitator Mpaka should continue to work with the Presidents and other senior figures in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda to consolidate and deepen their rapprochement, and, in particular, overcome any remaining obstacles to the full normalization of relations between the two countries, including at the diplomatic level;
(d) The Co-Facilitators should deepen efforts with the leadership of the countries of the Great Lakes region to enhance cooperation in the related areas of security and economic development under the framework of the Pact on Security,
S/2009/303
19 09-37053
Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region of Africa and other regional mechanisms;
Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo
(e) Special Envoy Obasanjo and Co-Facilitator Mpaka should continue to follow-up on the 23 March agreements, through the international follow-up committee established by those agreements and in cooperation with MONUC, in order to support and encourage the signatories to implement their commitments in full;
(f) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should commit the resources necessary to ensure the payment of soldiers’ salaries and their sustenance, including with respect to newly integrated elements from CNDP and other armed groups;
(g) MONUC should take all necessary measures, within its mandate, capabilities, and areas of deployment, to continue to ensure the protection of civilians, particularly in the context of ongoing military operations against FDLR and LRA;
(h) FARDC should take measures, with support from MONUC, to ensure the separation of children from armed groups, and ensure proper vetting mechanisms aimed at preventing the integration into FARDC and PNC of elements who have been involved in gross human rights violations;
Local elections
(i) Noting the continued importance of deepening democracy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should continue to disburse its share of resources in full, and take necessary legislative measures to ensure that local elections are held in a timely manner;
Security sector reform
(j) With the support of the international community and MONUC, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should embark as soon as possible on meaningful security sector reform, as a matter of urgent priority. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should demonstrate its commitment, at the highest level, to work with partners on building FARDC capacity, and develop a comprehensive security sector reform strategy;
(k) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should accelerate passage of the draft law necessary to enable the reform of PNC, and continue efforts to deploy trained and equipped members of the Congolese police forces to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to conduct regular policing activities in place of FARDC;
Rule of law and sexual and gender-based violence
(l) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should take decisive action to address confirmed human rights abuses by soldiers of the national army, including by holding officers responsible for crimes committed by troops
S/2009/303
09-37053 20
under their command. In this connection, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should rapidly follow up on the list of five FARDC officers who are assessed to have conducted such abuses and remain in commanding positions;
(m) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should build on emerging concrete steps to address the continued prevalence of sexual violence throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including by continuing to speak out at the highest levels against such abuses;
(n) Urgent consideration should be given to opportunities to strength the penitentiary system throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
Illegal exploitation of natural resources
(o) The Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbours should bring an end to the illegal exploitation of natural resources and cross-border trade, including through a normalization of trade relations within the framework of existing regional organizations.
IV. Liberia
A. Background and context
72. The Security Council’s first visit since 2004 came after significant progress had been achieved in consolidating peace and stability in Liberia. Since the Government of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf came into office in 2006, significant progress has been made in establishing a favourable macroeconomic framework; Liberia has reached the decision point under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC); and the Government has finalized its first national poverty reduction strategy following broad-based consultations. However, Liberia’s economic recovery started from extremely low levels, and poverty and unemployment levels remain high, resulting in mounting criticism of the lack of a visible peace dividend. The global economic crisis has also had a negative impact on recovery.
73. As such, the prevailing peace and stability in Liberia remains extremely fragile and vulnerable to disruption, partly owing to weak national security institutions. The problem of limited capacity of national security institutions is compounded by significant shortfalls in the country’s justice and corrections systems, which contribute to the general lack of public confidence in national institutions.
74. Civil unrest could erupt from several sources, including protests of the remnant idle former combatants and unemployed youth, the more than 14,000 former Armed Forces of Liberia and police personnel who were retrenched and have not found alternative livelihood; mob violence owing to the lack of public trust in the extremely weak justice system; and persisting land and ethnic disputes in the counties.
75. In addition, there are a number of ongoing processes — including the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the trial against former President Charles Taylor, and the presidential and legislative elections in 2011 —
S/2009/303
21 09-37053
that could generate tensions and be exploited by spoilers to destabilize the country. Furthermore, many ordinary Liberians do not feel physically secure because of the many incidents of armed robbery, sexual and gender-based violence and other violent crimes. The rape of women and girls remains a particular challenge, with studies suggesting that more than half of all women were subjected to some type of sexual violence during the conflict.
76. The underlying fragility of relative peace in Liberia is exacerbated by continued instability and unpredictability in the subregion, particularly the uncertain prospect of elections in Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire later in 2009, and the recent tensions between the two main political parties in Sierra Leone. Drug trafficking in the subregion is an additional challenge.
77. In that context, the Security Council visit aimed to reaffirm the Council’s continued support for the Government and people of Liberia, as they rebuild their country and strengthen the foundations of sustainable peace, constitutional democracy, and economic development. It also aimed at expressing support for the efforts of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) to promote peace and security in Liberia. Members of the Council further sought to assess progress made to build the capacity of Liberian national security institutions and to encourage the Liberian authorities to increase efforts in that regard; examine the impact of subregional factors on the situation in Liberia; express support for the Government’s efforts to extend State authority; underline the importance of promoting and protecting the rights of civilians; and assess progress towards combating sexual and gender-based violence.
78. The Security Council mission met with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and members of her Cabinet, the Deputy Commissioner for Training of the Liberian National Police (LNP), UNMIL senior staff, including United Nations police and military, and members of the UNMIL all-female formed police unit from India. The mission also met with representatives of the private sector, civil society, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and visited the Monrovia Central Prison and a training centre for former combatants.
B. Meetings in Monrovia
79. Upon arrival, a working dinner was held with members of the International Contact Group on Liberia, consisting of diplomatic representation of the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the European Commission, France, Germany, Nigeria, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. The Contact Group was joined by the Ambassadors of China and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, members of the UNMIL Management Leadership Team, the acting United Nations Resident Coordinator and the acting Humanitarian Coordinator. Interventions during the dinner held the consistent message that the presence of UNMIL had been crucial for the progress reached thus far in Liberia, and that the drawdown must be conducted in a deliberate and balanced manner.
80. On the following day the Security Council mission met with the Indian all- female formed police unit, and was briefed on its activities, which included public order tasks, static protection at key installations in Monrovia, joint patrols, and mentoring and capacity-building for the unarmed LNP, which continued to face logistical and capacity constraints. The formed police unit also assisted LNP in
S/2009/303
09-37053 22
efforts to combat sexual violence, a serious problem in Liberia, which is compounded by lack of education on this issue. Community activities included the Unit’s establishment of an orphanage and school, and the provision of medical services to the population. The Security Council members were informed that the high visibility of the Indian formed police unit had motivated Liberian women to apply for posts with the police in increased numbers, something which was echoed and welcomed by President Sirleaf.
81. The Security Council mission also visited the Monrovia Central Prison, where UNMIL corrections officers mentor and build the capacity of their Liberian counterparts. The delegation was guided around the prison premises by the Minister of Justice and other officials, and briefed on the recent escape of 32 prisoners from the facility. The Minister also briefed the delegation on concerns regarding the prisoner population, including the fact that 86 per cent of all prisoners in Liberia are pre-trial detainees, as well as feeding and overcrowding problems. The day the delegation visited the prison, it housed 660 prisoners, of which 24 were women. The women’s section, recently renovated with assistance provided by the Government of Canada, had adequate space and facilities for the inmates, as well as an internationally accepted ratio of inmates to corrections staff. Though one of the male blocks had been recently renovated with funding from the Governments of the United States and Norway, the Security Council mission was extremely concerned by the state of the oldest of the men’s wards, which was overly congested, had limited sanitary facilities, and a very high ratio of inmates to corrections staff. The members of the Council also expressed specific concern regarding the large number of pre-trial detainees and the multiple prison breaks from the facility, including the mass escape that had taken place at the facility in December 2008, when 163 inmates escaped. The Minister explained that an in-depth investigation on that event was ongoing, and that early indications suggested it could have been facilitated by prison staff themselves.
82. The Security Council mission further visited a facility managed by the Community Empowerment Project, a national non-governmental organization that provided training for former combatants as part of the last phase of the United Nations-supported formal ex-combatant reintegration programme. The programme, which mainly targeted women, was carried out on behalf of the National Commission for Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegration and Rehabilitation, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Norway, who funded the final phase of ex-combatant training in Liberia. UNMIL also supported this programme through the provision of security and technical assistance. Some 373 former combatants (including 99 male former combatants) benefited from the programme, which included vocational training, adult literacy classes, business values training, and gender-sensitive sexual reproduction and HIV sensitization. The mission attended the graduation ceremony of some of the participants and commended the valuable work that the Community Empowerment Project was carrying out in support of the rehabilitation of former combatants.
83. The Security Council mission also met with representatives of the international enterprises ArcelorMittal, Buchanan Renewables, and Liberian Agricultural Company Rubber Plantation, which have started operations in Liberia. The representatives briefed the mission on the nature of their work, respectively in iron ore extraction, the use of unproductive rubber trees as a source of renewable energy
S/2009/303
23 09-37053
power generation, both in Liberia and elsewhere, and the production of natural rubber for processing and export. They briefed on the level of infrastructural investment they had already made in Liberia, highlighting the labour-intensive nature of their activities, and particularly in the case of ArcelorMittal, the huge infrastructural investment they had been required to make in Liberia before turning a profit. All of the representatives indicated that a strong United Nations presence and the subsequent stability had greatly contributed to their decision to invest in Liberia. All expressed serious concern at the prospect of a possible early withdrawal of UNMIL, describing the gains made in security as still not irreversible. The link between security and the level of investment was highlighted in that regard. The Security Council mission congratulated the representatives of the private sector, acknowledging the critical role of economic development in sustaining stability. However, the members of the Council also cautioned against a dependency on UNMIL since the Mission would eventually be drawing down. It also encouraged the Liberian diaspora, estimated by one Liberian at the meeting to be around 200,000 in the United States alone, to participate in the reconstruction and development processes in Liberia.
84. Some members of the Security Council mission also met with representatives of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to hear background on the work of the Commission and their concerns with regard to security within the context of the Commission’s final report. The Chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission explained that the Commission had identified up to 100,000 alleged perpetrators and taken 20,000 statements from witnesses. He also explained that the Commission was now conducting regional consultations to be followed by a National Conference on Reconciliation. The commissioners affirmed the precariousness of the security situation in Liberia, and confirmed that they believed there could be vulnerability to instability once the Commission’s final report was released. This notwithstanding, the Chairman of the Commission affirmed that the Commission would make the content of its findings and recommendations public.
85. Other members of the Security Council mission met with a representative group of civil society organizations, who expressed gratitude for the work that UNMIL had engaged in over the past five years to stabilize the country. The spokesman for the group requested that the Council give careful thought to the UNMIL drawdown, with special consideration to the 2011 elections as well as the ability of the National Elections Commission to conduct credible elections; the development of rule of law institutions and the weak justice system; the extremely weak logistics and infrastructural support for security institutions, such as the Liberian Police, immigration services; and the new Armed Forces. Additionally, the group voiced concern that capacity-building activities had been plentiful for the public sector, but that civil society organizations had not benefited from such resources.
Security situation
86. UNMIL senior military and police commanders provided the Security Council mission with an assessment of the security situation in Liberia and current threats, and in this regard the impact of the UNMIL drawdown. The Security Council mission was informed that while the overall situation was calm, it was also highly unpredictable, with frequent unrest and demonstrations that often turned violent. Crime and mob action, armed robberies, and sexual violence continued to be
S/2009/303
09-37053 24
widespread. The high rate of youth unemployment and the limited opportunities available to former combatants contributed to the fragility of the situation, along with the lack of infrastructure and opportunities in the rest of the country that pulled increasing numbers of people into Monrovia, thereby creating frictions and competition for the limited resources and opportunities in the capital city. Land disputes were also a major source of instability in Liberia.
87. At the regional level, it was noted that while political relations between the countries of the Mano River Union (comprising of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone) were sound, the porous borders and the situation in Guinea were potential threats to the situation in Liberia, along with the presence of groups of Liberian former combatants along the borders, particularly in western Côte d’Ivoire. Fallout from elections in neighbouring countries, as well as Liberia, in the coming years also had the potential to threaten stability within Liberia. An additional source of concern was the level of preparedness of the Liberian security forces to assume full security responsibilities.
88. While there was no evidence that Liberia had become a key transit point for the international drug trade, marijuana production in Liberia exceeded local consumption. It was also noted that the geography of Liberia’s coasts could be conducive to the illegal drug trade. However, the strong presence of UNMIL throughout the country may have deterred the use of its territory as a transit point to date.
Status of security forces
89. The Security Council mission was informed by UNMIL military and police commanders and LNP leadership that, despite ongoing security sector reform efforts, the Liberian security forces still lacked the capacity to assume full responsibility for security and law and order in Liberia, and that the security forces remained dependent on the support provided by UNMIL. The Armed Forces of Liberia, comprising 2,000 well-vetted personnel, was currently being trained with support provided by the United States. The size of the army had been determined primarily based on the Liberian Government’s capacity to sustain the force. This force was not expected to be fully operational before 2012.
90. The Liberian National Police, comprising some 3,800 officers, was a largely unarmed force, with specialized armed elements. UNMIL is providing it with basic training at the Monrovia Police Academy, which was recently refurbished with the support of the Norwegian Government and UNDP. The training includes six months of classes at the Academy, followed by six months of on-the-job training. Stipends for LNP personnel at the academy were being provided through donors. The Liberian National Police’s capability was still considered to be severely limited owing to a lack of sufficient logistical support, human resources and funding. Related to the issue of LNP being an unarmed force, it was discussed that the development of LNP was at such a level that a policy decision to arm the rank and file of LNP was not yet considered appropriate. The arms embargo was also a factor.
91. In addition, the development of the 500-strong LNP Emergency Response Unit is making steady progress, with 209 officers currently trained and equipped to date. UNMIL and the United States were providing assistance and equipment for the Emergency Response Unit, which is intended to be a mobile force capable of responding to large-scale internal security incidents. Though the initial 209 officers
S/2009/303
25 09-37053
are operational, they continue to depend on UNMIL for in-service development, and the full 500 officers are not expected to be fully operational as scheduled, since classes are falling short on recruitment.
92. Members of the Council were informed that the continued presence of UNMIL was therefore considered crucial to ensure that the significant gains made are maintained. In this regard, it was noted that an UNMIL troop strength of some 8,200 officers (including 5,000 combat troops) was the minimum required strength to ensure that the Mission could carry out its mandated tasks until the Liberian national security forces could assume these tasks, in accordance with the identified benchmarks.
Meeting with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and the Liberian Cabinet
93. During the Council mission meeting with President Sirleaf and members of her Cabinet, the President noted that in the last six years there had been continued progress in the Liberian national recovery process and efforts to consolidate peace. However, the situation remained very fragile and the challenges faced were overwhelming. In addition to the major socio-economic problems, a large portion of the Liberian population remained accustomed to violence. The President reiterated the concern related to possible friction in view of the concentration of about 1.4 million people in Monrovia. While relations between the Mano River Union States were good, regional risks which could impact on the situation in Liberia included the uncertainties in Guinea as well as the situation in Côte d’Ivoire.
94. President Sirleaf outlined the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, which revolved around four main pillars: (a) peace and security; (b) economic development; (c) governance and rule of law; and (d) infrastructure and basic services.
95. With regard to peace and security, the President noted that the Government of the United States and the United Nations had supported security sector reform efforts. The members of the Council were also briefed by the various Liberian ministers on the security situation, and efforts to establish viable national security forces, which according to established benchmarks, should be able to progressively assume responsibilities for security and law and order within the next three to four years.
96. As for economic development, the President informed the mission that the Government needed to provide for the basic needs of the population, including former combatants, and was developing the economy around the mineral, agriculture and forestry sectors. However, these three sectors had not yet developed to the level where they could provide the required jobs. The Minister of Finance informed the mission that the international economic crisis has had a significant effect on Liberia’s 2009 growth rate, limiting it to 7.1 per cent from initial projections of 12 per cent, a level which was lower than the 2008 rate of 9.5 per cent. Major enterprises operating in Liberia have as a result reduced the level of their activities, and the Government has had to manage public expectations at a time when it should be delivering peace dividends. The Government was working to reach the HIPC completion point, which would provide much needed relief from debt service and was expected to provide access to other sources of funding.
S/2009/303
09-37053 26
97. The governance and rule of law pillar was recognized as the weakest, and posed the most challenges, especially given the status of human capital in Liberia. The President outlined the Government’s objective of building a responsible civil service and completely rebuilding a non-existent judicial structure, while at the same time combating corruption, which permeated every level of Liberian society. The Security Council mission was informed that the protracted years of war had led to a lack of trust in national institutions and a massive brain drain, which had weakened and factionalized the civil service. The Government was therefore actively trying to attract Liberians to return from abroad to help with the reconstruction process. Another key driver of conflict that needed to be addressed was the issue of property rights and land claims. In that regard, a national land commission was also planned to be established. The Minister of Justice informed that the laws in Liberia of over half a century no longer met Liberia’s requirements, which had led to the establishment of a Law Reform Commission to update existing laws. Efforts were also under way to train judges and to establish a records system in the courts.
98. With regard to the fourth pillar relating to infrastructure and basic services, the Security Council mission was informed that the gross domestic product per capita fell from US$ 900 in 1978 to US$ 250 in 2005, which was indicative of the deterioration of the situation in Liberia. In that regard, the Government had prioritized as part of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, the rehabilitation of roads and the rebuilding of the country’s electricity grid.
99. The President and members of her cabinet observed that it would be better for Liberia’s overall image if UNMIL were withdrawn, but stressed that it was too early to consider a precipitous withdrawal before agreed upon benchmarks are achieved. Security Council members expressed their admiration for the successes achieved so far, and the Government’s plans to address the remaining daunting challenges.
100. In response to questions from Security Council members, the President indicated that the endgame was for Liberians to have total ownership of all processes in their country and to take control of their destiny, in particular of their security. The police was seen as the biggest challenge in the absence of a lead nation that could support the process of establishing a credible force, as was the case with the United Kingdom and the Sierra Leonean Police. The President mentioned, however, that a national police strategy was being developed, including with the support of the United Kingdom Government, which would hopefully guide the solid development of LNP over the next three to four years.
101. Reacting to a question regarding the criminal code, which had recently reinstated capital punishment for committing armed robbery, the President acknowledged the concerns of the international community but requested that the decision be seen in the light of the circumstances facing Liberia, in particular the high level of criminality and pressure by civil society for stronger measures to be taken to address that situation. She undertook that the law would be reviewed once conditions permitted. In the meantime, this stipulation would be used very judiciously.
102. The President also outlined the Government’s proactive efforts to address the issue of sexual violence against women.
S/2009/303
27 09-37053
C. Recommendations
103. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
(a) While confirming that there will be no precipitous withdrawal of UNMIL, the Government of Liberia should step up efforts to build its military and police capacity to be able to assume full security responsibilities once UNMIL completes its mandate. In this connection, donors should increase assistance for standing up the Liberian security forces;
(b) Acknowledging the impact that the international financial crisis has had on the very fragile situation in Liberia, donors should continue to provide much needed support to ensure that the four pillars of the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy are adequately financed; acknowledging the mutually reinforcing link between economic development and security, the Government should continue to support small and medium-size enterprises;
(c) Efforts should continue to encourage the Liberian diaspora to return to help build their country. In this connection, the Government should continue to create the conditions to absorb returning Liberians;
(d) Welcoming the Government’s commitment to combat sexual violence, the Government should redouble efforts to address this critical issue;
(e) UNMIL should continue to support the Liberian authorities in consolidating peace, in accordance with it mandate. In this connection, the Mission should continue efforts to ensure that the identified benchmarks are met within the expected timelines. UNMIL should also continue to focus on building the capacity of the Liberian counterparts, in particular within the security sector.
V. Conclusion
104. Members of the Security Council mission wish to express their appreciation to all their interlocutors during their visit for the very useful and constructive exchanges of views. Ambassadors Sawers, Rugunda, Ripert, and Rice, in their respective capacities as leaders of the visit’s various segments, would like to collectively express their gratitude for the Governments of Ethiopia, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and the African Union for their support and hospitality. They would also like pay tribute to the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and for Liberia, as well as to MONUC and UNMIL for their proactive participation and for contributing to the successful outcome of the mission. Finally, they wish to express their appreciation to the Secretariat for all its support.
S/2009/303
Composition
Counsellor Long Zhou (China)
Ambassador Ranko Viloviü (Croatia)
Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert (France)
Ambassador Yukio Takasu (Japan)
Ambassador Claude Heller (Mexico)
Minister Fazli Çorman (Turkey)
Ambassador Ruhakana Rugunda (Uganda)
Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Ambassador Susan Rice (United States of America)
Ambassador Hoang Chi Trung (Viet Nam)
Terms of reference
African Union
Led by the Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) and Ambassador Ruhukana Rugunda (Uganda)
1. To continue to develop an effective partnership and enhance cooperation between the African Union and the United Nations through an exchange of views on issues of interest to both the United Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council.
2. To exchange views on situations of interest to both the United Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council, which include but are not limited to the following:
(a) A brief overview of the peace and security situation in Africa;
* Previously circulated in document S/2009/243.
S/2009/303
(b) The situation in the Sudan:
(i) Darfur: the challenges to the political process and the functioning of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID);
(ii) Humanitarian situation in Darfur;
(iii) Implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the challenges being faced;
(iv) Sudan/Chad: the role of the Dakar contact group and the challenges to the implementation of the Doha Agreement and previous bilateral agreements;
(c) The situation in Somalia:
(i) Political, security and military developments in Somalia and the functioning of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), including the United Nations logistical support package for AMISOM;
(ii) Piracy;
(d) The situation in the Great Lakes region, in particular eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo: progress and challenges to stabilization in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(e) The resurgence of unconstitutional changes of government: efforts undertaken by the African Union to resolve and prevent unconstitutional changes of Government.
II Great Lakes region (Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda)
General elements
1. To recall the commitment of the Security Council to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of all States in the region.
2. To express the strong support of the Security Council for the improvement of relations among the countries of the region and to encourage them to continue reinforcing their political, military and economic cooperation in order to guarantee the long-term stabilization of the Great Lakes region.
3. To reiterate support for the strengthening of the regional dynamic, including through the development, where appropriate, of economic projects of common interest and the implementation of appropriate steps to facilitate legal trade and put an end to illegal trafficking of natural resources.
4. To stress that all parties should reinvigorate their participation in the Goma and Nairobi processes, which are the agreed framework for stabilizing the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and urge all parties to fully recommit to their respective disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration programmes.
5. To emphasize the support of the Council for action against the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA).
6. To underline the importance of full implementation of the sanctions measures put in place through resolution 1857 (2008).
S/2009/303
09-37053 30
7. To underscore the scale of the resources committed by the United Nations to peacekeeping in the Great Lakes region and the need for a clear commitment of cooperation on the part of all national and regional actors.
8. To emphasize the continuing concerns of the Council about the protection of civilians, to address the situation of internally displaced civilians and to advocate for respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, to raise awareness of the need for sexual violence and child protection issues to be addressed, and to encourage the parties and Governments concerned to ensure that those responsible for serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law are brought to justice.
Additional elements for the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Led by Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert (France)
9. To acknowledge the primary responsibility of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to consolidate peace and stability, and to promote recovery and development in the country, which require long-term sustained efforts and appropriate international support.
10. To reaffirm the support of the Security Council to the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and to receive a briefing on the MONUC strategic workplan requested by the Council in its resolution 1856 (2008).
11. To get updates on the Kimia II and Rubia II operations, jointly planned and conducted by the Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) and MONUC against the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), the Lord’s Resistance Army and other armed groups, and to reaffirm that all military operations should be carried out in accordance with international humanitarian, human rights and refugee law and take appropriate measures to protect civilians.
12. To call on the Congolese authorities to intensify their efforts to reform the security sector, with the assistance of the international community.
13. To emphasize the support of the Council for the strengthening of democratic institutions, the rule of law, and good governance in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including through the holding of local elections.
14. To examine ways to improve the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in particular to strengthen its efforts to prevent and respond to sexual violence and to enhance child protection, bearing in mind the conclusions of the Security Council Working Group on Children and Armed Conflict.
15. To recall the utmost importance of the fight against impunity, notably in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, by bringing to justice those who have committed crimes and atrocities.
S/2009/303
Additional elements for Rwanda
Led by Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
16. To discuss Rwandan concerns in the region, and how these can be addressed while respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States in the Great Lakes region.
III Liberia
Led by Ambassador Susan Rice (United States of America)
1. To reaffirm the continued support of the Security Council for the Government and people of Liberia as they rebuild their country, strengthen the foundations of sustainable peace, constitutional democracy, and economic development and assume their rightful place in the community of nations.
2. To express support for the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and their efforts to promote peace and security in Liberia.
3. To review progress in the implementation of the mandate of UNMIL, in particular progress made in meeting the benchmarks outlined in the eighteenth progress report of the Secretary-General (S/2009/86), and assess the logistic constraints affecting the UNMIL troop and police mobility.
4. To assess the operational capacity and sustainability of the Liberian National Police and other national security institutions, and assess progress made in training the Armed Forces of Liberia.
5. To encourage Liberian authorities to increase their efforts to prepare national security institutions to assume greater responsibility for responding to law and order challenges.
6. To express support for the efforts of the Government of Liberia to extend and consolidate effective State authority in all 15 counties of the country, with the assistance of the international community.
7. To examine the impact of subregional factors on the situation in Liberia, and explore ways to strengthen regional cooperation, including measures to counter the threat of illegal drug trafficking.
8. To underline the importance of promoting and protecting the rights of civilians, in particular women and children, and assess progress in combating violence against children and women, including sexual and gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse.
9. To underline the support of the Council for civil society, including women’s groups.
10. To underline the need for full implementation of the sanctions regime on Liberia.
S/2009/303
Annex II Communiqué of the consultative meeting between the
Peace and Security Council of the African Union and the members of the Security Council of the United Nations
The Peace and Security Council of the African Union (AU) and the members of the Security Council of the United Nations held a consultative meeting at the headquarters of the African Union in Addis Ababa on 16 May 2009. This meeting was a follow-up to the two previous meetings in 2007 and 2008, held in Addis Ababa and New York, respectively.
Bearing in mind the Security Council’s primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security and the mandate of the Peace and Security Council with regard to the maintenance of peace and security in Africa, the meeting availed itself of this opportunity to review matters of common interest, in particular the enhancement of peace and security in Africa and the development of effective partnership between the two institutions, under the framework of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations.
The meeting reviewed the situations in Somalia and the Sudan, the relations between the Sudan and Chad as well as the issues of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa. The two bodies agreed to continue to work closely together on these issues, with a view to achieving concrete results. With reference to the report of the African Union-United Nations panel on modalities for support to AU peacekeeping operations, including the funding of AU-led peace support operations, the AU Peace and Security Council and the Security Council of the United Nations look forward to the report to be submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations no later than 18 September 2009, in accordance with the Security Council presidential statement of 18 March 2009 (S/PRST/2009/3), and to the African Union input to that report.
The members of the Security Council of the United Nations and the AU Peace and Security Council are committed to strengthening further and enhancing their cooperation, particularly in the prevention and resolution of conflicts, peacekeeping and peacebuilding, including the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law and constitutional order in Africa. In this respect, the meeting welcomed the adoption by the Security Council of a presidential statement on the issue of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa (S/PRST/2009/11), which will further enhance the African Union’s efforts in addressing such situations on the continent.
The AU Peace and Security Council and the members of the Security Council of the United Nations agreed to pursue their consultations on ways and means to strengthen their cooperation and partnership, as well as on the modalities for the organization of their consultations. They agreed to hold their next consultative meeting in New York, in 2010, at a date to be agreed upon.
Addis Ababa, 16 May 2009
United Nations  S/2009/303
Security Council  Distr.: General 11 June 2009 Original: English
09-37053 (E)    010709 *0937053*
Report of the Security Council mission to the African Union; Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo; and Liberia
I. Introduction
1. The present report of the Security Council mission to Africa from 14 to 21 May 2009 has three sections, covering the Council’s visits to the African Union; Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and Liberia. Each section ends with specific recommendations to the Security Council, the parties involved and the international community. The present report follows the briefing to the Council by heads of the Security Council mission to Africa on 28 May 2009.
2. In his letter dated 12 May 2009 (S/2009/243), the President of the Security Council informed the Secretary-General that the members of the Council had decided to send a mission to Africa from 14 to 21 May 2009. The segment of the mission to the African Union was jointly led by the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations, Ambassador John Sawers, and the Permanent Representative of Uganda to the United Nations, Ambassador Ruhakana Rugunda. The Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations led the segment to Rwanda, while the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations, Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert, led the segment to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations, Ambassador Susan Rice, led the segment to Liberia. The composition and terms of reference of the mission are set out in annex I to the present report.
II. African Union
A. Background and context
3. The Security Council’s visit to Addis Ababa fell within the framework of cooperation between the Security Council and the African Union under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. Meetings were held with the African Union Peace and Security Council and with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Jean Ping, and the Commissioner for Peace and Security, Ambassador Ramtane Lamamra. The members of the Security Council also met with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi. In addition, the Council members had the
S/2009/303
09-37053 2
opportunity to meet with the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General to the Great Lakes region, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, regarding the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region, which is summarized in section II of the present report.
B. Meeting with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission and the Commissioner for Peace and Security
4. The Chairperson of the African Union Commission welcomed the increased links between the Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council, the importance that the Security Council places on African questions, and its tradition of making field visits to gain a direct sense of the issues on the agenda of the Council.
5. Concerning Somalia, the members of the Security Council underscored their unanimous support for the work of the African Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), and the Burundian and Ugandan troops that presently composed it. The Council was considering the extension of the AMISOM mandate for an additional eight months. However, the Council was very concerned at the precariousness of the present situation, which had further deteriorated in the days leading up to the Council members’ travel to Addis Ababa. The Council had adopted a presidential statement (S/PRST/2009/15), in which it expressed its deep concern further to the latest round of fighting in Somalia, which it saw as a direct attempt to challenge the Djibouti Agreement.
6. Commissioner Lamamra noted that the African Union Commission shared many of these concerns. While the political situation in Somalia had been evolving positively, there had been a series of negative developments on the security front. Although AMISOM had not been attacked in the recent fighting, a large number of civilians had been killed and insurgent forces, though repelled, were reportedly regrouping. While AMISOM had a strong mandate, it lacked the capabilities to respond robustly. Uganda and Burundi were both ready to deploy further battalions. But the additional battalion pledged by Sierra Leone would take a minimum of three months to deploy. Some members of the Council also raised concerns regarding the alleged sources of external support to the insurgency in Somalia, and in particular from Eritrea.
7. Concerning the Sudan, the members of the Council underlined their concern about the continued serious challenges, both with respect to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the situation in Darfur, where the expulsion of a number of international non-governmental organizations had rendered an already difficult humanitarian situation critical. In this regard, the Council stressed the need to ensure the continuity of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population throughout the Sudan. The Council was encouraged by the work of the joint African Union-United Nations Chief Mediator for Darfur, Yipéné Djibrill Bassolé. It was more urgent than ever to build up the peacekeeping capacity in Darfur. Council members acknowledged that there were different views on how best to fight impunity in this context, but all were firmly in agreement concerning the importance of that fight.
8. Chairperson Ping underlined that the situation in the Sudan also remained a constant concern for the African Union. The situation must be addressed holistically,
S/2009/303
3 09-37053
taking into account the challenges of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) deployment, of the need for justice, and of relations between northern and Southern Sudan, among others. He pointed out that in an earlier communiqué, the African Union had regretted that the Sudanese Government had placed obstacles in the path of the UNAMID deployment. He further noted that constant and discreet pressure from the African Union had helped to clear some of those obstacles. On justice, the African Union had pressed the Government to consider the organization of a domestic judicial process. The African Union would continue to support all initiatives towards dialogue in this regard, including the recently launched initiative by Qatar. Finally, on the NGO expulsions, the African Union suggested that a tripartite structure to examine this matter might be established, comprising the African Union, the United Nations and the Government of the Sudan.
9. In closing, Chairperson Ping briefly raised the African Union Commission’s concern at the growing threat of the drugs trade on peace and security of the West African region, including in Guinea-Bissau, and that Africa would require international assistance to combat it. He also called attention to the growing maritime threat to oil platforms in the Guinea Gulf with parallels to the challenge of piracy off the Somali coast.
C. Third Consultative Meeting with the African Union Peace and Security Council
10. The third consultative meeting between the members of the Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council was intended to further the development of an effective partnership and enhance cooperation through an exchange of views on matters of mutual interest. The agenda included a discussion of the situation in the Sudan, the situation in Somalia, the resurgence of unconstitutional changes of Governments, and the financing of peacekeeping operations in Africa. At the outset of the meeting, which was co-chaired by the Permanent Representative of Burundi to the African Union, the Chairperson of the African Union Peace and Security Council, and the Permanent Representatives of the United Kingdom and Uganda to the United Nations, in their capacities as co-leads of the Council’s mission to the African Union. It was agreed, after some discussion, that the meeting of the two bodies should be considered as the third in a sequence of similar consultative meetings between the Peace and Security Council and the Security Council which took place in 2007 and 2008. It was agreed that there should be further reflection on the modalities for the organization of these discussions.
11. Turning to the situation in the Sudan, the mission began by noting that UNAMID, as a hybrid operation between the African Union and the United Nations, was a concrete expression of the commitment of the two organizations to partnership. The members of the Council stressed the need to ensure the continuity of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population throughout the Sudan. The Sudan was now entering a critical phase, with elections planned in 2010 and a referendum in 2011. As such, the Sudanese parties should be strongly encouraged to overcome any obstacles to the full implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. Concerning relations between Chad and the Sudan, the African Union Peace and Security Council had met on 8 May, following the outbreak of renewed
S/2009/303
09-37053 4
conflict between rebel groups and the Chadian Government, and issued a communiqué deploring armed group attacks in eastern Chad and renewing its condemnation of any attempt at an unconstitutional change of Government in the country. The President of the Security Council had also made a statement on the same issue on 5 May 2009 (S/PRST/2009/11).
12. The members of the Council expressed serious concern regarding the humanitarian situation in the Sudan, with the rainy season in prospect and the expulsion of the international NGOs having radically reduced the capacity to meet assessed and critical needs. Overall, a dual track was needed, combining both political and peacekeeping initiatives. The recent announcement by the Sudanese Government of a timetable for elections was a welcome development — the conduct of free and fair elections and referendums was a vital dimension of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. Within the Council, there was unanimity on the need to fight impunity, even if there were some differences on how to move towards that goal. Another Council member raised the question of the International Criminal Court indictment against Sudanese President Omar El-Bashir, noting that a middle position needed to be found, reconciling the imperatives of peace and justice. On Chad, the Council members underlined that any attempt to destabilize a sovereign Government was unacceptable.
13. On Somalia, the African Union Peace and Security Council considered that while there had been some progress on the political front, the security situation was once more of considerable concern. The Somalis urgently needed to be provided with the strength to ensure their own security; the Transitional Federal Government needed to be exempted from the existing arms embargo so it could effectively counter the present insurgency; and a full United Nations peacekeeping operation should be deployed as early as possible. In the meantime, the United Nations support to AMISOM should be fast-tracked, as should the financial support pledged at the recent donors’ conference in Brussels.
14. The members of the Council considered that the situation in Somalia was precarious. Following the recent presidential statement (S/PRST/2009/15), some members of the Council expressed further concern over reports of flows of arms and fighters from Eritrea, in violation of the arms embargo. The Council was also presently considering a new resolution, which would provide a logistical support package to AMISOM through assessed contributions from the States Members of the United Nations.
15. The members of the Council shared the view that the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping operation would be important when the conditions were right. It was noted that, consistent with Security Council resolution 1853 (2008), some exemptions could be granted by the Security Council Sanctions Committee in order to train and equip the Transitional Federal Government and its security forces.
16. Turning to the question of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa, the African Union indicated that it had taken a very strong position against a number of recent such changes in Government. The Security Council had also adopted a presidential statement on 5 May 2009 (S/PRST/2009/11), in which it expressed concern at the possible violence that might accompany such events, and welcomed the efforts of the African Union to settle conflicts and promote constitutional order in Africa; the Council also welcomed the decision of the twelfth Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union, held from 1 to 3 February 2009, in which the
S/2009/303
5 09-37053
Assembly had expressed the African Union’s concern and condemnation of the resurgence of coups d’état.
17. Finally, the discussion turned to the financing of peacekeeping operations in Africa, and the report of the African Union-United Nations panel on modalities for support to African Union peacekeeping operations (the “Prodi report”) (S/2008/813, annex) in particular. The Peace and Security Council proposed that a joint commission be established between the African Union and the United Nations to examine the Prodi report recommendations and to look at funding for their implications. With the economic crisis and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals at risk, it was not realistic to expect African nations to place major financial means at the disposal of peacekeeping efforts. A possible Security Council resolution authorizing assessed contributions to support AMISOM would, therefore, be greatly welcomed. The members of the Council underlined that it took very seriously the need to support the development of African peacekeeping, as demonstrated through the unique support package being developed for AMISOM. They noted that a report of the Secretary-General, including concrete recommendations in that regard, was expected by mid-September. All were agreed that there was an imperative to find better financial mechanisms, and this had been the genesis of the “Prodi panel”, the African Union-United Nations panel chaired by Romano Prodi, former Prime Minister of Italy.
18. Following the conclusion of the substantive discussion, the members of the Security Council and the Peace and Security Council together adopted a joint communiqué, which is reproduced in annex II to the present report.
D. Meeting with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi
19. During their visit to Addis Ababa, the members of the Council also met with Meles Zenawi, the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, and discussed the situations in Somalia and the Sudan, and the recent difficulties between Eritrea and Djibouti. The Prime Minister indicated that he did not consider the situation in Somalia to be irreversible. AMISOM, however, would need urgently to be consolidated. Several members of the Council asked what more might be done to stem the reported arms flows from Eritrea.
20. On the Sudan, the members of the Council raised concern regarding obstacles to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and to the peace process in Darfur, as well as with respect to the expulsion of the international NGOs and the indictment of President El-Bashir by the International Criminal Court. The Prime Minister expressed concern regarding the slow implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and increasing instability in Southern Sudan. He also regretted the “see-sawing” of rebel movements between Chad and the Sudan over many years.
21. On Eritrea and Djibouti, the Prime Minister expressed the hope that Eritrea would take measures to resolve the differences between the two countries. He encouraged the Security Council to put pressure on Eritrea in that regard.
S/2009/303
09-37053 6
E. Recommendations
22. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and the conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
(a) Emphasizing the importance that the Security Council places on its cooperation with the African Union to address with effectiveness pressing matters of peace and security on the African continent, that the Security Council pursue further consultations with the African Union on ways and means to strengthen their cooperation;
(b) That the Security Council should continue to work closely with the African Union Peace and Security Council to strengthen further and enhance their cooperation, particularly in the prevention and resolution of conflicts, peacekeeping and peacebuilding, including the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law and constitutional order in Africa;
(c) In particular, that the Security Council work closely with the Peace and Security Council to agree upon the optimum modalities for the organization of their consultations, including their next consultative meeting in New York, in 2010, at a date to be agreed upon;
(d) With reference to the report of the African Union-United Nations panel on modalities for support to African Union peacekeeping operations, including the funding of African Union-led peace support operations, that the Security Council should carefully consider the recommendations of the forthcoming report to be submitted by the United Nations Secretary-General no later than 18 September 2009, in accordance with the statement by the President of the Security Council of 18 March 2009 (S/PRST/2009/3), together with the African Union input to that report;
(e) In the light of the recent adoption of a presidential statement on the issue of unconstitutional changes of Government in Africa (S/PRST/2009/11), that the Security Council reflect on whether further measures may prove necessary at an appropriate moment, including in support of the African Union’s own efforts to address such situations on the continent;
(f) That the Security Council remain actively seized of the deteriorating situation in Somalia, that it consider further measures to strengthen AMISOM, including through supporting steps to accelerate the deployment of additional battalions and through the possible adoption of enhanced mechanisms to ensure that AMISOM receives the necessary financial support in a sustained manner, and that it review whether further action may be necessary in response to reports of external support to insurgent groups, in violation of the existing arms embargo on Somalia;
(g) That the Security Council, working closely with the African Union, strongly encourage the Sudanese parties to overcome any obstacles to the full implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, continue to provide all political and other support to the work of the Joint African Union-United Nations mediation in Darfur, under the leadership of the Joint African Union-United Nations Chief Mediator, Mr. Bassolé, and take further steps to accelerate the deployment to full strength of UNAMID and to support the implementation of the UNAMID mandate.
S/2009/303
7 09-37053
III. Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
A. Background and context
23. The Council’s mission to Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo took place following recent major developments that significantly reshaped the security and political landscape in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region. In this regard, the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Uganda agreed to work together to address the issue of the armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo which pose a threat to the stability for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the region. Following the events of October-November 2008, when the renewed fighting between the Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) and Congrès national pour la défense du peuple (CNDP) in North Kivu reached a critical point, CNDP announced, in January 2009, the change of its leadership; the end of hostilities with the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and its agreement to integrate, alongside other Congolese armed groups, into FARDC. These undertakings were consolidated in the agreements of 23 March signed between the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, CNDP, and the other armed groups operating in the Kivus, which were concluded under the auspices of former President of Nigeria, General Olusegun Obasanjo, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Great Lakes Region, together with his Co-Facilitator, the former President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa. In parallel, and against the backdrop of improved relations between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, the two countries began joint military operations against the Forces démocratiques de liberation du Rwanda (FDLR) on 20 January 2009.
24. On 25 February, the day after the conclusion of the joint Democratic Republic of the Congo-Rwanda military operations and the departure of the Rwanda forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and FARDC reached agreement on a joint plan to carry forward FARDC-led operations against FDLR in the Kivus. The operation, entitled “Kimia II”, aimed to pursue the neutralization of FDLR by preventing it from reoccupying former positions and by cutting its lines of economic sustenance. Kimia II began shortly thereafter in North Kivu, with MONUC support. In the meantime, on 26 January, CNDP and other armed groups in North Kivu began an accelerated integration into FARDC. The newly integrated units were deployed throughout North Kivu to undertake the Kimia II operations.
25. In an effort to limit the humanitarian consequences of the military effort, and in accordance with its mandate, MONUC also focused on efforts to protect civilians. On the military side, this involved deploying up to 40 company operating bases and temporary operating bases in areas of known and assessed threat throughout North Kivu. At the same time, MONUC piloted a new concept of civilian joint protection teams which were deployed alongside many of the company operating bases and temporary operating bases to enhance coordination between the humanitarian and military communities on protection issues, and improve information-sharing and awareness-raising with the local population.
26. The Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo operation resulted in a marked increase in the repatriation to Rwanda of FDLR combatants and their
S/2009/303
09-37053 8
dependents, as well as civilians. Since the beginning of the year nearly 8,000 Rwandans have returned. Of these, between January and February 2009, some 1,198 FDLR ex-combatants and their dependents took advantage of facilitated repatriation opportunities offered by MONUC and the demobilization and reinsertion programmes provided by the Government of Rwanda. Since then, a further 481 were repatriated as a result of Kimia II as at 1 May.
27. In Province Orientale, the Ugandan rebel group, the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) exacted heavy reprisals against populations in Haut and Bas Uélé following the start of the joint Uganda-Democratic Republic of the Congo-Southern Sudan operations on 14 December 2008. Since the departure of the Uganda forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, MONUC has continued to support FARDC-led operations against LRA, and has redeployed assets including two attack helicopters and one battalion to enhance efforts to protect civilians. At the same time, increased militia activity in Ituri in the months preceding the visit of the members of the Council also necessitated MONUC support to FARDC-led operations there.
28. Against this backdrop, the resignation on 25 March of Vital Kamerhe, the former Speaker of the Democratic Republic of the Congo National Assembly who had criticized President Kabila’s decision to allow Rwandan troops into North Kivu, resulted in a further realignment in favour of the Presidential majority within the legislature. While preparations for the planned local elections were under way, the ability and will to conduct them in a timely manner before the scheduled 2011 national elections remained unclear at the time of the visit of the members of the Council.
29. In that context, the tenth mission of the members of the Security Council to the Great Lakes region aimed to express the Council’s strong support for the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, and to encourage them to continue reinforcing their political, military and economic cooperation, including with respect to stemming the illegal trafficking of natural resources, in order to guarantee the long-term stabilization of the Great Lakes region. The members of the Council also wished to stress the importance of reinvigorating the spirit of the Goma and Nairobi processes that, together with the 23 March agreements, constitute a viable framework to resolve the issue of the ongoing presence of Congolese and foreign armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
30. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the mission sought to emphasize the primary importance it attaches to protecting civilians, including with respect to sexual violence and children associated with armed groups, as well as combating impunity and respect for human rights. The members of the Council aimed to emphasize the responsibility of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in that regard, while reaffirming its full support to MONUC. The Security Council mission also sought to underline the need to enhance efforts to fight impunity and ensure that those responsible for serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law are brought to justice, including at a high level within FARDC. The mission wished to emphasize, in this regard, the imperative to address the scourge of sexual violence, which continues to exact a horrendous toll on the women and girls of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
31. Another important element which the members of the Council aimed to underscore was the need to intensify efforts to reform the security sector, including
S/2009/303
9 09-37053
immediate measures that could be taken to reform the army in the light of the integration of large numbers of CNDP and other armed group elements into FARDC, as well as with respect to the reform of the Congolese police (PNC). While recognizing the major challenge this will involve, the mission sought to underline that the international community was prepared to increase and better coordinate its support for Congolese efforts that were based on a sustainable and realistic strategy in that regard.
32. In terms of MONUC, the members of the Council wished to reaffirm its support for the work undertaken by the Mission in what remains one of the most complex and intricate environments ever faced by a peacekeeping mission. At the same time, the Council members aimed to seek the views of Government and MONUC interlocutors regarding the parameters of the MONUC mandate, its performance, and the future of the Mission, including with respect to its eventual drawdown and the progressive handover of its tasks in western Democratic Republic of the Congo, which was requested by the Council in resolution 1856 (2008).
B. Meeting with the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Great Lakes Region, former President Olusegun Obasanjo
33. The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General noted that much progress had been achieved since his last briefing to the Security Council in New York in January 2009. In his view, the normalization of relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda was proceeding steadily. In eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, while the humanitarian situation remained difficult, there had been some improvements since the decision by CNDP and other armed groups to integrate into the Congolese armed forces, and the arrest of Laurent Nkunda. However, the situation remained fragile. At the operational level, salaries, support and logistics for the newly integrated ex-combatants remained uncertain. At the political level, challenges also remained, including with respect to the transformation of CNDP and of other armed groups into political parties.
34. The Special Envoy and his Co-Facilitator had in this context focused on providing political encouragement and exerting pressure on the parties through regular consultations with the Presidents and Government officials in Kinshasa and Kigali, as well as key stakeholders in the Kivus. Such follow-up, including through the aegis of the international follow-up committee established under the 23 March 2009 agreements signed in Goma, had already yielded concrete results, including the creation of the National Follow-Up Committee envisaged in the agreements; the passage of the Law on Amnesty on 12 May; the April meetings between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to discuss modalities for refugee return; the meeting in May between the Governors of North and South Kivu as well as those from neighbouring provinces in Rwanda, Burundi and the United Republic of Tanzania; steps towards the removal of the remaining “parallel administrations” in parts of North Kivu by CNDP; and discussions regarding modalities for the release of CNDP political prisoners.
35. The Special Envoy also noted progress at the bilateral and regional levels. At the bilateral level, the “Four plus Four” Commission, bringing together the Foreign Ministers and Army Chiefs of Staff of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
S/2009/303
09-37053 10
Rwanda, continued frequent meetings. The joint Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo military operations against FDLR had helped to build confidence, and both Presidents had expressed their satisfaction to the Special Envoy regarding their political outcome. On the diplomatic front, the joint operations had also generated momentum for further discussions in the Four plus Four Commission towards both deepening economic cooperation and renewing formal diplomatic relations. On 7 May, Rwanda designated an Ambassador to Kinshasa, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo shared a list of possible Ambassadors to Kigali with Rwanda. The Democratic Republic of the Congo also recently made known its choice for the position of Deputy Head of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. It was now important to concentrate on restoring full confidence. In the Special Envoy’s view, the relationship between the two Presidents would need continued encouragement, and it might now be opportune for the two leaders to meet again, perhaps on the margins of the next summit of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, which is planned to take place in Zambia in June. At the regional level, the Special Envoy had remained in regular contact with President Kibaki, in his capacity as International Conference on the Great Lakes Region Chair, had briefed a wide cross-section of regional Heads of State, and had recently briefed President Ghadafi, in his capacity as Chairperson of the African Union. Special Envoy Obasanjo also noted his intention to help the leaders of the region revive the Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
36. Looking ahead, Special Envoy Obasanjo outlined six priorities, namely, the consolidation of the newly integrated armed forces into the Congolese army, including through regular payment of salaries; concerted military, political, and legal actions against FDLR; the overall implementation of the 23 March agreements, backed by targeted international support; additional steps to strengthen the confidence between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo; further international support to building institutions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and a focus on security sector reform in particular; and ensuring the continued engagement of Great Lakes leaders and the African Union, including the implementation of the “Stability Pact”. The Special Envoy also suggested that a donors’ conference could be held in the coming months to raise additional resources in support of recovery, the extension of State authority and security sector reform.
37. Members of the Council congratulated the Special Envoy and his Co-Facilitator on the success so far achieved, and again welcomed the rapprochement between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbours. They encouraged him to continue his work to help the region’s leaders to deepen and consolidate that rapprochement. They further pointed to the need to bring the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s natural resources fully under the control of the State, to the benefit of its population, the need to pursue efforts to help the Democratic Republic of the Congo to acquire a professional army, and on the vital necessity of vetting mechanisms to prevent those known to have violated human rights and committed acts of sexual and gender-based violence from holding positions within it.
S/2009/303
11 09-37053
C. Meetings in Kigali
38. In Rwanda, the Security Council mission, led by the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations, Ambassador John Sawers, met in Kigali with President Paul Kagame and Rosemary Museminali, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The members of the Council also had the opportunity to visit the Genocide Memorial at Gisozi, a stark reminder of the horrific events of 1994, the consequences of which continue to affect the subregion. The mission also visited a demobilization centre in Mutobo, where they met with recently demobilized FDLR ex-combatants who told the members of the Council their stories of life in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and expressed their appreciation for the opportunity to return to normal life in Rwanda.
39. President Kagame expressed his view that the marked difference in the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo in the last six months, compared to the previous 15 years, was a result of increased ownership of the problem posed by the continued presence of FDLR in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He was encouraged by the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, which had led to what he considered to be very effective joint Democratic Republic of the Congo-Rwanda military operations against FDLR in January and February 2009.
40. In the President’s assessment, the joint operations had contributed to an improvement in the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in North Kivu. However, he felt that there was still a lot to be achieved and that the joint operation would have required more time to accomplish in full its desired results. The President expressed hope that the Rwandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo Governments could find more grounds to continue to work together to address the problem of FDLR. President Kagame also noted the need to work with the international community to tackle the root causes of the problems in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and not just the consequences, including the recruitment of child soldiers, sexual violence and the illegal exploitation of natural resources.
41. In President Kagame’s view, one of the root causes of the problem was the absence of effective State authority in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the overall lack of governance and institutional capacity, which contributed to the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In this regard, he firmly refuted all accusations that Rwanda was involved in any exploitation of natural resources from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That point, among others, was emphasized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who in addition welcomed Security Council resolution 1857 (2008), by which the Council strengthened the linkages between the illegal exploitation of natural resources and sanctions.
42. In terms of the present situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, President Kagame expressed concern that the momentum generated by the joint Rwanda-Democratic Republic of the Congo military operation had not been sustained and that the follow-on operations led by FARDC had not yet been as effective as desired, with FDLR returning to locations from where they had been dislodged and carrying out attacks against civilians, creating further displacements.
S/2009/303
09-37053 12
He encouraged the Security Council to consider reviewing the MONUC mandate and strength so as to streamline and focus its activities on addressing the root causes of the problem. President Kagame also confirmed Rwanda’s readiness to participate in future joint operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo against FDLR.
43. These points were echoed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who urged the Council to implement its resolution 1804 (2008), providing for the imposition of sanctions against leaders of FDLR who, often from their home bases in Europe or North America, perpetuate the hate and fear that impedes the rank and file from returning and reintegrating normal life in Rwanda. In that connection, while welcoming the measures taken in March 2009 against four senior FDLR leaders, she urged the Council to initiate a thorough investigation of the list of 19 suspects which Rwanda had submitted to the Security Council Sanctions Committee.
44. The Foreign Minister also informed the members of the Council of recent efforts undertaken by Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to solidify the improvement in their bilateral relations. She highlighted the recent appointment by Rwanda of its first Ambassador to Kinshasa, Amandin Rugira, since diplomatic ties between the two countries were severed in 1998. In addition, the Foreign Minister noted that Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo had reached agreement, in the context of the Four plus Four Commission, to develop a joint plan aimed at continuing cooperation on dealing with FDLR. The Foreign Minister noted that such cooperation could include the provision of military training to the FARDC. The members of the Council were also informed of concrete measures that had been taken to broaden and deepen relations at the regional level, including with respect to the revitalization of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Region and the meeting in May of the Governors of the subregion, which the countries involved had agreed would now take place twice a year.
45. The Foreign Minister also indicated Rwanda’s readiness for the transfer of International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda cases to the Rwandan justice system. She also stressed the Rwandan Government’s request that the Tribunal’s archives be transferred to Rwanda.
46. The members of the Council welcomed the improved relations between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, which all agreed had had an important impact on the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. They encouraged a broadening and deepening of the relationship, and welcomed the concrete measures outlined by Rwanda in that regard. The mission also welcomed President Kagame’s reaffirmation that Rwanda stood ready to be part of the solution in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and to participate as necessary in the efforts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Government to address them.
47. The status of the peace process in Burundi was also raised with the President and Foreign Minister, especially in the light of the expected withdrawal in June of the South African contingent that comprises the African Union Special Task Force.
D. Meetings in Goma
48. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Security Council mission led by the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations, Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert, visited Kinshasa and Goma. In Goma, the members of the
S/2009/303
13 09-37053
Council met with the Governor of North Kivu, Julien Paluku, and senior FARDC and PNC officials including several auditeurs militaires. The mission also received briefings by MONUC regarding the ongoing military operations against FDLR, the Forces de résistance patriotiques en Ituri (FRPI) and LRA, as well as the United Nations Support Strategy for Stabilization and Security for Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition, Council members met with the humanitarian community, including local NGOs. The Council mission travelled to Kiwanja Internally Displaced Person camp where they met with local authorities, internally displaced persons, and MONUC, including a joint protection team based there. Security Council members also met with victims of sexual violence at the HEAL Africa hospital.
49. Overall, the members of the Council agreed that recent developments in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and the subregion were encouraging and had the potential to address one of the root causes of the conflict in the Kivus, namely, the question of the continued presence of foreign armed groups in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The developments also opened new opportunities to make progress on a number of pressing issues that have contributed to instability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the much needed reform of the Congolese army and the restoration of State authority.
50. However, the mission observed that the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remained fluid and volatile. Operations against FDLR had been accompanied by an increase in threats and attacks against civilians by the armed group in both North and South Kivu, where planning had been completed at the time of the members of the Council’s visit, but the military effort had yet to begin. The humanitarian situation also remained dire in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, with fresh displacements of populations in the Kivus, as well as in Ituri and Haut and Bas Uélé.
51. The integration of CNDP and other armed groups into FARDC had also not been unproblematic. A key concern observed by the members of the Council was that many of the newly integrated FARDC elements had yet to receive their salaries, supplies and equipment. As a result, some desertions from the FARDC ranks had been reported. More widely, they noted the urgent need to undertake root and branch reform of the security sector, beginning with the army, including as a key factor determining the eventual drawdown of MONUC.
52. The visit of the members of the Council to HEAL Africa hospital was a stark reminder of the scourge of sexual violence, and of the consequences of the ongoing conflict and pervasive impunity in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. Horrendous stories were shared by those who had been victimized at times repeatedly and always brutally. In this connection, the Council members were informed that a list of five names of senior commanding officers within FARDC believed to be responsible for serious crimes had been submitted to Government authorities, without follow-up. The lack of properly functioning prisons throughout the country significantly affects the fight against impunity since very often those found responsible for crimes, including sexual violence, were able to escape incarceration.
53. The members of the Council also observed first-hand some of the challenges faced by MONUC in one of the most challenging peacekeeping contexts. While welcoming the increased clarity which resolution 1856 (2008) had brought to the
S/2009/303
09-37053 14
MONUC mandate, including regarding the use of force, the Council noted that the situation in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo had revealed the at times competing imperatives of protecting civilians and supporting FARDC-led military operations that had inevitable humanitarian consequences. In some instances, elements of FARDC itself were the source of human rights violations. In this connection, the rapid deployment of the additional capabilities authorized by resolution 1843 (2008) would nonetheless enhance the Mission’s protection of civilians effort. They were informed that the deployment of those capabilities would begin in July 2009.
54. In this context, at the outset of the mission’s meeting with senior members of FARDC and PNC, FARDC officials noted that peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had come at the expense of a professional Congolese army owing to the need to regularly absorb illegal armed elements into its ranks. This also contributed to the pervasive lack of discipline among its troops. FARDC and PNC welcomed their close cooperation with and support from MONUC, and requested additional support in that regard. The FARDC officials also underlined the importance of security sector reform, particularly with respect to the army, but noted the practical challenges of making progress on this issue given the ongoing military operations in the Kivus, Ituri and Haut and Bas Uélé. However, MONUC maintained the view that training and active operations could be conducted simultaneously and reiterated its request that FARDC make use of two training centres the Mission had established for FARDC.
55. The members of the Council welcomed the cooperation between MONUC and both FARDC and PNC, and urged a continued focus on deploying well-trained and equipped police forces as part of the re-establishment of State authority and normalization of security functions in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. More broadly, the mission underscored the importance of making tangible progress on security sector reform, including with respect to justice. The urgent need to increase the number and deployment of judges to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and establish functioning military prison facilities was also underlined.
56. The meeting between members of the Council and the Governor of North Kivu provided an opportunity for the Governor to outline several priorities for the Council’s consideration, including encouraging the improved relationship between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda on political, economic and security issues; accelerating the implementation of the Prime Minister’s Stabilization Plan for Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including to ensure the re-establishment of State authority; security sector reform, including immediate measures that could boost FARDC performance in the Kimia II operations; sensitization of FDLR to encourage their disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, reintegration and rehabilitation; and support for concrete measures to prevent the illegal exploitation of natural resources.
57. The members of the Council also received a briefing on the humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The mission was reminded that while the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo remained dire, basic human development indicators throughout the country area were among the lowest in the world. In North Kivu, 250,000 people were newly displaced as a result of the recent fighting, among a total of 900,000 displaced civilians in the province.
S/2009/303
15 09-37053
In a positive development however, 300,000 people had recently returned to areas formerly occupied by CNDP.
58. Council members were presented with five consolidated recommendations on behalf of the humanitarian community: encourage MONUC to condition its support to FARDC on the implementation of a mechanism to vet known abusers of human rights violations from among its ranks, including at the commanding levels; hold the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo accountable in the fight against impunity; enhance disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement or reintegration efforts to encourage voluntary repatriation of FDLR; appoint a Special Rapporteur on Sexual Violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and accelerate the deployment of the additional capabilities for MONUC authorized by resolution 1843 (2008).
59. The Council members’ visit to Kiwanja provided a first-hand opportunity to observe the practical application of the MONUC protection of civilians mandate. The Security Council mission was informed of the protection activities carried out by MONUC, which have been put in place since the start of the year, including the establishment of quick reaction teams, and an extensive early warning local network throughout the area of responsibility, which had reduced the reaction time of MONUC in the zone where this innovation was being tested to less than 10 minutes. The Security Council mission was also briefed in detail on the work of the joint protection teams, and their contribution to enhancing the protection of civilians. The mission also visited a camp for internally displaced people adjacent to the MONUC position in Kiwanja and met with representatives of civil society in the area.
E. Meetings in Kinshasa with the President, the Government and parliamentary institutions
60. In Kinshasa, the mission met with President Joseph Kabila Kabange, Prime Minister Adolphe Muzito and key Government ministers, including the Ministers of Defence, Foreign Affairs, Interior, Planning, Human Rights, Family and Gender, Finance and Economy. The mission met with the President of the Senate, Léon Kengo wa Dongo, and the recently elected Speaker of the National Assembly, Evariste Boshab and members of both chambers. They also held a working lunch with Abbé Malu Malu, the head of the Independent Electoral Commission, the diplomatic community, the United Nations country team, and private sector representatives, during which they received briefings on the planned local elections and the macroeconomic situation. In furtherance to resolution 1856 (2008), the Council mission received a briefing from MONUC on the development of its Strategic Workplan.
61. President Kabila stated that, in his view, the situation had evolved positively since the last visit of the Council to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in June 2008. Relations with neighbouring countries, in particular Rwanda and Uganda, had improved and reached a level where in his assessment they could only continue to evolve positively. Noting that the recent joint operations with Rwanda against FDLR and with Uganda against LRA had been successful, the President indicated that the operations would continue by the Congolese army until those two foreign armed groups had been eradicated. He expressed an intention to continue to cooperate with the neighbouring countries in this regard through regular exchange
S/2009/303
09-37053 16
of information, and welcomed emerging concrete opportunities to enhance their political and economic cooperation. The Prime Minister, along with both chambers of Parliament, echoed the President in welcoming the joint operations against the foreign armed groups, and expressed their full support for the rapprochement between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and other neighbouring countries.
62. In their meetings with the Security Council mission, both the President and Prime Minister noted that efforts were under way to tackle the conditions in which armed groups emerged and thrived in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including with respect to stemming the illegal trade of natural resources and re-establishing State authority. Prime Minister Muzito stressed that the deterioration in the economic and financial situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had made this effort more challenging, and expressed the hope that the international community would contribute to the Prime Minister’s Stabilization Plan for eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, including through accelerated implementation of the United Nations Support Strategy for Security and Stabilization in Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
63. The President, the Prime Minister, cabinet ministers, and the Parliament all agreed on the urgent need to make tangible progress on security sector reform. President Kabila noted that, in his view, the international community had focused on national elections, while support on security sector reform had been less than expected. He urged the provision of resources and technical support on that critical issue.
64. Regarding the scourge of sexual and gender-based violence, the President reiterated his view that addressing the problem of the continued presence of illegal armed groups would have an important impact on the incidence of sexual violence. The President and the Prime Minister committed to concrete measures to tackle impunity among the Congolese security forces, including with respect to following up on the five cases of senior FARDC commanding officers which had been submitted to the Government. It was also noted that the Senate and the National Assembly were working closely with the Government on judicial legislation to better enable the State to sanction and prevent human rights violations, including with respect to sexual and gender-based violence.
65. In this connection, the Minister of Justice outlined specific measures adopted by the Government to combat impunity, including planned trials relating to crimes of sexual violence to be held in North Kivu and recent improvements with respect to military justice, including the first prosecutions of elements of the elite Republican Guard and the decision by a military court to award reparations to be paid by the State to rape victims for unlawful acts committed by elements of FARDC. The Minister of Justice also informed the members of the Council of training initiatives aimed at increasing the number of magistrates in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which currently number 1 for every 30,000 people. At the same time, President Kabila reiterated his view on the need to pursue justice before peace to ensure the consolidation of stability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
66. Council members were also informed by the Minister of Family and Gender of several concrete measures relating to sexual violence, including the establishment of a Government agency dedicated to women and children affected by sexual violence, a fund aimed at preventing and dealing with the consequences of sexual violence,
S/2009/303
17 09-37053
and the development, in collaboration with the United Nations, of a comprehensive strategy on sexual and gender-based violence.
67. The Prime Minister, along with both chambers of the Parliament, underlined the importance of holding the planned local elections in a timely manner. Regarding pending legislation relating to the law establishing an authoritative list of territorial entities, which should become the electoral constituencies, the President of the Senate expressed the view that the local elections could proceed on the basis of the existing laws in that regard. Some members of the opposition of the National Assembly noted that discussion was ongoing regarding the law relating to the establishment of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the successor body to the Independent Electoral Commission, which had been established in the context of the 2006 national elections. The Prime Minister, along with the Parliament, indicated that the deterioration in the economic and financial situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had affected the Government’s ability to commit resources to the process, which had also contributed to some slippage in the timeline. They encouraged the international community to fill the resource gap to ensure that local elections would be held in a timely manner.
68. Concerning MONUC, the President expressed appreciation for the role of the Mission, which had accompanied the peace consolidation process through some key milestones, including the organization of the national elections in 2006. While both President Kabila and Prime Minister Muzito welcomed the continued presence of MONUC in its current configuration for the next two years, President Kabila encouraged the Council to begin consideration of the eventual drawdown of MONUC, including an elaboration of prerequisites in that regard. In the immediate term, Prime Minister Muzito encouraged MONUC to continue to redeploy its efforts towards eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and focus on the protection of civilians. The Prime Minister also outlined the specific expectations of his Government with regard to MONUC and the Security Council, namely, the timely deployment of the additional capabilities authorized by the Council, greater engagement on disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement or reintegration and security sector reform, facilitation of humanitarian assistance for displaced and other vulnerable populations, a complete lift of the arms embargo on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and support for the planned local elections.
69. Throughout the meetings in Kinshasa, Council members welcomed the measures taken by the Democratic Republic of the Congo to broaden and deepen the improved relations with Rwanda and other neighbouring countries. They urged the Government to continue to prioritize security sector reform and the extension of State authority in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The mission also welcomed the Government’s commitment to take concrete steps to address impunity, including with respect to follow-up on the list of five FARDC commanding officers believed to be responsible for human rights violations. The President assured the Security Council mission that the necessary action would be taken with regard to those five. The Council members also strongly urged the Government and the Parliament to work together to accelerate the passage of the draft law required to enable the reform of the police.
70. At the Council’s request, the mission also received a briefing on the development of the MONUC Strategic Workplan. The Strategic Workplan, which
S/2009/303
09-37053 18
was shared with the members of the Council, outlines priority actions and benchmarks in relation to the principal elements of the MONUC mandate on the basis of resolution 1856 (2008). The Workplan is based on two main transitional phases: (a) the deployment of the additional capabilities authorized in resolution 1843 (2008) for MONUC in support of stabilization in the Kivus, Haut and Bas Uélé and Ituri until mid-2010, after which consideration could be given to the drawdown of the MONUC military assets; and (b) the handover to the United Nations country team and other partners of selected MONUC functions in the western provinces within a 6 to 24 month period. In this regard, MONUC outlined key transition milestones, including continued stability in western Democratic Republic of the Congo; key advances in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, leading to the end of combat activities; advances in security sector reform, whereby FARDC progressively assumes security responsibilities from MONUC; and local elections held by early 2010. These conditions would enable the MONUC force to transition from area domination to a more mobile and concentrated response stance. Assuming that the planned general elections in 2011 would be organized and protection provided by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo with limited MONUC support, various scenarios could then be envisaged for the drawdown of the MONUC force, taking into consideration the above milestones.
F. Recommendations
71. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
Regional cooperation
(a) The Security Council strongly encourages the Governments in the region, in particular the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, to continue to build on the positive momentum created by their recent improved relations and to continue to take measures aimed at building confidence between them and laying the foundations for sustainable regional cooperation, including through the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. It welcomes the appointment of a Rwandan ambassador to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and encourages the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to expedite the appointment of its ambassador to Rwanda;
(b) Within the framework of the Four plus Four Commission and the Nairobi communiqué of 9 November 2007, the Security Council also encourages the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda to continue to work jointly to address the issue of FDLR in a comprehensive manner;
(c) Special Envoy Obasanjo and Co-Facilitator Mpaka should continue to work with the Presidents and other senior figures in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda to consolidate and deepen their rapprochement, and, in particular, overcome any remaining obstacles to the full normalization of relations between the two countries, including at the diplomatic level;
(d) The Co-Facilitators should deepen efforts with the leadership of the countries of the Great Lakes region to enhance cooperation in the related areas of security and economic development under the framework of the Pact on Security,
S/2009/303
19 09-37053
Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region of Africa and other regional mechanisms;
Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo
(e) Special Envoy Obasanjo and Co-Facilitator Mpaka should continue to follow-up on the 23 March agreements, through the international follow-up committee established by those agreements and in cooperation with MONUC, in order to support and encourage the signatories to implement their commitments in full;
(f) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should commit the resources necessary to ensure the payment of soldiers’ salaries and their sustenance, including with respect to newly integrated elements from CNDP and other armed groups;
(g) MONUC should take all necessary measures, within its mandate, capabilities, and areas of deployment, to continue to ensure the protection of civilians, particularly in the context of ongoing military operations against FDLR and LRA;
(h) FARDC should take measures, with support from MONUC, to ensure the separation of children from armed groups, and ensure proper vetting mechanisms aimed at preventing the integration into FARDC and PNC of elements who have been involved in gross human rights violations;
Local elections
(i) Noting the continued importance of deepening democracy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should continue to disburse its share of resources in full, and take necessary legislative measures to ensure that local elections are held in a timely manner;
Security sector reform
(j) With the support of the international community and MONUC, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should embark as soon as possible on meaningful security sector reform, as a matter of urgent priority. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should demonstrate its commitment, at the highest level, to work with partners on building FARDC capacity, and develop a comprehensive security sector reform strategy;
(k) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should accelerate passage of the draft law necessary to enable the reform of PNC, and continue efforts to deploy trained and equipped members of the Congolese police forces to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to conduct regular policing activities in place of FARDC;
Rule of law and sexual and gender-based violence
(l) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should take decisive action to address confirmed human rights abuses by soldiers of the national army, including by holding officers responsible for crimes committed by troops
S/2009/303
09-37053 20
under their command. In this connection, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should rapidly follow up on the list of five FARDC officers who are assessed to have conducted such abuses and remain in commanding positions;
(m) The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should build on emerging concrete steps to address the continued prevalence of sexual violence throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including by continuing to speak out at the highest levels against such abuses;
(n) Urgent consideration should be given to opportunities to strength the penitentiary system throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
Illegal exploitation of natural resources
(o) The Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbours should bring an end to the illegal exploitation of natural resources and cross-border trade, including through a normalization of trade relations within the framework of existing regional organizations.
IV. Liberia
A. Background and context
72. The Security Council’s first visit since 2004 came after significant progress had been achieved in consolidating peace and stability in Liberia. Since the Government of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf came into office in 2006, significant progress has been made in establishing a favourable macroeconomic framework; Liberia has reached the decision point under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC); and the Government has finalized its first national poverty reduction strategy following broad-based consultations. However, Liberia’s economic recovery started from extremely low levels, and poverty and unemployment levels remain high, resulting in mounting criticism of the lack of a visible peace dividend. The global economic crisis has also had a negative impact on recovery.
73. As such, the prevailing peace and stability in Liberia remains extremely fragile and vulnerable to disruption, partly owing to weak national security institutions. The problem of limited capacity of national security institutions is compounded by significant shortfalls in the country’s justice and corrections systems, which contribute to the general lack of public confidence in national institutions.
74. Civil unrest could erupt from several sources, including protests of the remnant idle former combatants and unemployed youth, the more than 14,000 former Armed Forces of Liberia and police personnel who were retrenched and have not found alternative livelihood; mob violence owing to the lack of public trust in the extremely weak justice system; and persisting land and ethnic disputes in the counties.
75. In addition, there are a number of ongoing processes — including the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the trial against former President Charles Taylor, and the presidential and legislative elections in 2011 —
S/2009/303
21 09-37053
that could generate tensions and be exploited by spoilers to destabilize the country. Furthermore, many ordinary Liberians do not feel physically secure because of the many incidents of armed robbery, sexual and gender-based violence and other violent crimes. The rape of women and girls remains a particular challenge, with studies suggesting that more than half of all women were subjected to some type of sexual violence during the conflict.
76. The underlying fragility of relative peace in Liberia is exacerbated by continued instability and unpredictability in the subregion, particularly the uncertain prospect of elections in Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire later in 2009, and the recent tensions between the two main political parties in Sierra Leone. Drug trafficking in the subregion is an additional challenge.
77. In that context, the Security Council visit aimed to reaffirm the Council’s continued support for the Government and people of Liberia, as they rebuild their country and strengthen the foundations of sustainable peace, constitutional democracy, and economic development. It also aimed at expressing support for the efforts of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) to promote peace and security in Liberia. Members of the Council further sought to assess progress made to build the capacity of Liberian national security institutions and to encourage the Liberian authorities to increase efforts in that regard; examine the impact of subregional factors on the situation in Liberia; express support for the Government’s efforts to extend State authority; underline the importance of promoting and protecting the rights of civilians; and assess progress towards combating sexual and gender-based violence.
78. The Security Council mission met with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and members of her Cabinet, the Deputy Commissioner for Training of the Liberian National Police (LNP), UNMIL senior staff, including United Nations police and military, and members of the UNMIL all-female formed police unit from India. The mission also met with representatives of the private sector, civil society, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and visited the Monrovia Central Prison and a training centre for former combatants.
B. Meetings in Monrovia
79. Upon arrival, a working dinner was held with members of the International Contact Group on Liberia, consisting of diplomatic representation of the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the European Commission, France, Germany, Nigeria, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. The Contact Group was joined by the Ambassadors of China and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, members of the UNMIL Management Leadership Team, the acting United Nations Resident Coordinator and the acting Humanitarian Coordinator. Interventions during the dinner held the consistent message that the presence of UNMIL had been crucial for the progress reached thus far in Liberia, and that the drawdown must be conducted in a deliberate and balanced manner.
80. On the following day the Security Council mission met with the Indian all- female formed police unit, and was briefed on its activities, which included public order tasks, static protection at key installations in Monrovia, joint patrols, and mentoring and capacity-building for the unarmed LNP, which continued to face logistical and capacity constraints. The formed police unit also assisted LNP in
S/2009/303
09-37053 22
efforts to combat sexual violence, a serious problem in Liberia, which is compounded by lack of education on this issue. Community activities included the Unit’s establishment of an orphanage and school, and the provision of medical services to the population. The Security Council members were informed that the high visibility of the Indian formed police unit had motivated Liberian women to apply for posts with the police in increased numbers, something which was echoed and welcomed by President Sirleaf.
81. The Security Council mission also visited the Monrovia Central Prison, where UNMIL corrections officers mentor and build the capacity of their Liberian counterparts. The delegation was guided around the prison premises by the Minister of Justice and other officials, and briefed on the recent escape of 32 prisoners from the facility. The Minister also briefed the delegation on concerns regarding the prisoner population, including the fact that 86 per cent of all prisoners in Liberia are pre-trial detainees, as well as feeding and overcrowding problems. The day the delegation visited the prison, it housed 660 prisoners, of which 24 were women. The women’s section, recently renovated with assistance provided by the Government of Canada, had adequate space and facilities for the inmates, as well as an internationally accepted ratio of inmates to corrections staff. Though one of the male blocks had been recently renovated with funding from the Governments of the United States and Norway, the Security Council mission was extremely concerned by the state of the oldest of the men’s wards, which was overly congested, had limited sanitary facilities, and a very high ratio of inmates to corrections staff. The members of the Council also expressed specific concern regarding the large number of pre-trial detainees and the multiple prison breaks from the facility, including the mass escape that had taken place at the facility in December 2008, when 163 inmates escaped. The Minister explained that an in-depth investigation on that event was ongoing, and that early indications suggested it could have been facilitated by prison staff themselves.
82. The Security Council mission further visited a facility managed by the Community Empowerment Project, a national non-governmental organization that provided training for former combatants as part of the last phase of the United Nations-supported formal ex-combatant reintegration programme. The programme, which mainly targeted women, was carried out on behalf of the National Commission for Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegration and Rehabilitation, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Norway, who funded the final phase of ex-combatant training in Liberia. UNMIL also supported this programme through the provision of security and technical assistance. Some 373 former combatants (including 99 male former combatants) benefited from the programme, which included vocational training, adult literacy classes, business values training, and gender-sensitive sexual reproduction and HIV sensitization. The mission attended the graduation ceremony of some of the participants and commended the valuable work that the Community Empowerment Project was carrying out in support of the rehabilitation of former combatants.
83. The Security Council mission also met with representatives of the international enterprises ArcelorMittal, Buchanan Renewables, and Liberian Agricultural Company Rubber Plantation, which have started operations in Liberia. The representatives briefed the mission on the nature of their work, respectively in iron ore extraction, the use of unproductive rubber trees as a source of renewable energy
S/2009/303
23 09-37053
power generation, both in Liberia and elsewhere, and the production of natural rubber for processing and export. They briefed on the level of infrastructural investment they had already made in Liberia, highlighting the labour-intensive nature of their activities, and particularly in the case of ArcelorMittal, the huge infrastructural investment they had been required to make in Liberia before turning a profit. All of the representatives indicated that a strong United Nations presence and the subsequent stability had greatly contributed to their decision to invest in Liberia. All expressed serious concern at the prospect of a possible early withdrawal of UNMIL, describing the gains made in security as still not irreversible. The link between security and the level of investment was highlighted in that regard. The Security Council mission congratulated the representatives of the private sector, acknowledging the critical role of economic development in sustaining stability. However, the members of the Council also cautioned against a dependency on UNMIL since the Mission would eventually be drawing down. It also encouraged the Liberian diaspora, estimated by one Liberian at the meeting to be around 200,000 in the United States alone, to participate in the reconstruction and development processes in Liberia.
84. Some members of the Security Council mission also met with representatives of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to hear background on the work of the Commission and their concerns with regard to security within the context of the Commission’s final report. The Chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission explained that the Commission had identified up to 100,000 alleged perpetrators and taken 20,000 statements from witnesses. He also explained that the Commission was now conducting regional consultations to be followed by a National Conference on Reconciliation. The commissioners affirmed the precariousness of the security situation in Liberia, and confirmed that they believed there could be vulnerability to instability once the Commission’s final report was released. This notwithstanding, the Chairman of the Commission affirmed that the Commission would make the content of its findings and recommendations public.
85. Other members of the Security Council mission met with a representative group of civil society organizations, who expressed gratitude for the work that UNMIL had engaged in over the past five years to stabilize the country. The spokesman for the group requested that the Council give careful thought to the UNMIL drawdown, with special consideration to the 2011 elections as well as the ability of the National Elections Commission to conduct credible elections; the development of rule of law institutions and the weak justice system; the extremely weak logistics and infrastructural support for security institutions, such as the Liberian Police, immigration services; and the new Armed Forces. Additionally, the group voiced concern that capacity-building activities had been plentiful for the public sector, but that civil society organizations had not benefited from such resources.
Security situation
86. UNMIL senior military and police commanders provided the Security Council mission with an assessment of the security situation in Liberia and current threats, and in this regard the impact of the UNMIL drawdown. The Security Council mission was informed that while the overall situation was calm, it was also highly unpredictable, with frequent unrest and demonstrations that often turned violent. Crime and mob action, armed robberies, and sexual violence continued to be
S/2009/303
09-37053 24
widespread. The high rate of youth unemployment and the limited opportunities available to former combatants contributed to the fragility of the situation, along with the lack of infrastructure and opportunities in the rest of the country that pulled increasing numbers of people into Monrovia, thereby creating frictions and competition for the limited resources and opportunities in the capital city. Land disputes were also a major source of instability in Liberia.
87. At the regional level, it was noted that while political relations between the countries of the Mano River Union (comprising of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone) were sound, the porous borders and the situation in Guinea were potential threats to the situation in Liberia, along with the presence of groups of Liberian former combatants along the borders, particularly in western Côte d’Ivoire. Fallout from elections in neighbouring countries, as well as Liberia, in the coming years also had the potential to threaten stability within Liberia. An additional source of concern was the level of preparedness of the Liberian security forces to assume full security responsibilities.
88. While there was no evidence that Liberia had become a key transit point for the international drug trade, marijuana production in Liberia exceeded local consumption. It was also noted that the geography of Liberia’s coasts could be conducive to the illegal drug trade. However, the strong presence of UNMIL throughout the country may have deterred the use of its territory as a transit point to date.
Status of security forces
89. The Security Council mission was informed by UNMIL military and police commanders and LNP leadership that, despite ongoing security sector reform efforts, the Liberian security forces still lacked the capacity to assume full responsibility for security and law and order in Liberia, and that the security forces remained dependent on the support provided by UNMIL. The Armed Forces of Liberia, comprising 2,000 well-vetted personnel, was currently being trained with support provided by the United States. The size of the army had been determined primarily based on the Liberian Government’s capacity to sustain the force. This force was not expected to be fully operational before 2012.
90. The Liberian National Police, comprising some 3,800 officers, was a largely unarmed force, with specialized armed elements. UNMIL is providing it with basic training at the Monrovia Police Academy, which was recently refurbished with the support of the Norwegian Government and UNDP. The training includes six months of classes at the Academy, followed by six months of on-the-job training. Stipends for LNP personnel at the academy were being provided through donors. The Liberian National Police’s capability was still considered to be severely limited owing to a lack of sufficient logistical support, human resources and funding. Related to the issue of LNP being an unarmed force, it was discussed that the development of LNP was at such a level that a policy decision to arm the rank and file of LNP was not yet considered appropriate. The arms embargo was also a factor.
91. In addition, the development of the 500-strong LNP Emergency Response Unit is making steady progress, with 209 officers currently trained and equipped to date. UNMIL and the United States were providing assistance and equipment for the Emergency Response Unit, which is intended to be a mobile force capable of responding to large-scale internal security incidents. Though the initial 209 officers
S/2009/303
25 09-37053
are operational, they continue to depend on UNMIL for in-service development, and the full 500 officers are not expected to be fully operational as scheduled, since classes are falling short on recruitment.
92. Members of the Council were informed that the continued presence of UNMIL was therefore considered crucial to ensure that the significant gains made are maintained. In this regard, it was noted that an UNMIL troop strength of some 8,200 officers (including 5,000 combat troops) was the minimum required strength to ensure that the Mission could carry out its mandated tasks until the Liberian national security forces could assume these tasks, in accordance with the identified benchmarks.
Meeting with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and the Liberian Cabinet
93. During the Council mission meeting with President Sirleaf and members of her Cabinet, the President noted that in the last six years there had been continued progress in the Liberian national recovery process and efforts to consolidate peace. However, the situation remained very fragile and the challenges faced were overwhelming. In addition to the major socio-economic problems, a large portion of the Liberian population remained accustomed to violence. The President reiterated the concern related to possible friction in view of the concentration of about 1.4 million people in Monrovia. While relations between the Mano River Union States were good, regional risks which could impact on the situation in Liberia included the uncertainties in Guinea as well as the situation in Côte d’Ivoire.
94. President Sirleaf outlined the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, which revolved around four main pillars: (a) peace and security; (b) economic development; (c) governance and rule of law; and (d) infrastructure and basic services.
95. With regard to peace and security, the President noted that the Government of the United States and the United Nations had supported security sector reform efforts. The members of the Council were also briefed by the various Liberian ministers on the security situation, and efforts to establish viable national security forces, which according to established benchmarks, should be able to progressively assume responsibilities for security and law and order within the next three to four years.
96. As for economic development, the President informed the mission that the Government needed to provide for the basic needs of the population, including former combatants, and was developing the economy around the mineral, agriculture and forestry sectors. However, these three sectors had not yet developed to the level where they could provide the required jobs. The Minister of Finance informed the mission that the international economic crisis has had a significant effect on Liberia’s 2009 growth rate, limiting it to 7.1 per cent from initial projections of 12 per cent, a level which was lower than the 2008 rate of 9.5 per cent. Major enterprises operating in Liberia have as a result reduced the level of their activities, and the Government has had to manage public expectations at a time when it should be delivering peace dividends. The Government was working to reach the HIPC completion point, which would provide much needed relief from debt service and was expected to provide access to other sources of funding.
S/2009/303
09-37053 26
97. The governance and rule of law pillar was recognized as the weakest, and posed the most challenges, especially given the status of human capital in Liberia. The President outlined the Government’s objective of building a responsible civil service and completely rebuilding a non-existent judicial structure, while at the same time combating corruption, which permeated every level of Liberian society. The Security Council mission was informed that the protracted years of war had led to a lack of trust in national institutions and a massive brain drain, which had weakened and factionalized the civil service. The Government was therefore actively trying to attract Liberians to return from abroad to help with the reconstruction process. Another key driver of conflict that needed to be addressed was the issue of property rights and land claims. In that regard, a national land commission was also planned to be established. The Minister of Justice informed that the laws in Liberia of over half a century no longer met Liberia’s requirements, which had led to the establishment of a Law Reform Commission to update existing laws. Efforts were also under way to train judges and to establish a records system in the courts.
98. With regard to the fourth pillar relating to infrastructure and basic services, the Security Council mission was informed that the gross domestic product per capita fell from US$ 900 in 1978 to US$ 250 in 2005, which was indicative of the deterioration of the situation in Liberia. In that regard, the Government had prioritized as part of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, the rehabilitation of roads and the rebuilding of the country’s electricity grid.
99. The President and members of her cabinet observed that it would be better for Liberia’s overall image if UNMIL were withdrawn, but stressed that it was too early to consider a precipitous withdrawal before agreed upon benchmarks are achieved. Security Council members expressed their admiration for the successes achieved so far, and the Government’s plans to address the remaining daunting challenges.
100. In response to questions from Security Council members, the President indicated that the endgame was for Liberians to have total ownership of all processes in their country and to take control of their destiny, in particular of their security. The police was seen as the biggest challenge in the absence of a lead nation that could support the process of establishing a credible force, as was the case with the United Kingdom and the Sierra Leonean Police. The President mentioned, however, that a national police strategy was being developed, including with the support of the United Kingdom Government, which would hopefully guide the solid development of LNP over the next three to four years.
101. Reacting to a question regarding the criminal code, which had recently reinstated capital punishment for committing armed robbery, the President acknowledged the concerns of the international community but requested that the decision be seen in the light of the circumstances facing Liberia, in particular the high level of criminality and pressure by civil society for stronger measures to be taken to address that situation. She undertook that the law would be reviewed once conditions permitted. In the meantime, this stipulation would be used very judiciously.
102. The President also outlined the Government’s proactive efforts to address the issue of sexual violence against women.
S/2009/303
27 09-37053
C. Recommendations
103. Taking into account the views expressed by the mission’s interlocutors and conclusions drawn from the various exchanges, the members of the Council recommend:
(a) While confirming that there will be no precipitous withdrawal of UNMIL, the Government of Liberia should step up efforts to build its military and police capacity to be able to assume full security responsibilities once UNMIL completes its mandate. In this connection, donors should increase assistance for standing up the Liberian security forces;
(b) Acknowledging the impact that the international financial crisis has had on the very fragile situation in Liberia, donors should continue to provide much needed support to ensure that the four pillars of the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy are adequately financed; acknowledging the mutually reinforcing link between economic development and security, the Government should continue to support small and medium-size enterprises;
(c) Efforts should continue to encourage the Liberian diaspora to return to help build their country. In this connection, the Government should continue to create the conditions to absorb returning Liberians;
(d) Welcoming the Government’s commitment to combat sexual violence, the Government should redouble efforts to address this critical issue;
(e) UNMIL should continue to support the Liberian authorities in consolidating peace, in accordance with it mandate. In this connection, the Mission should continue efforts to ensure that the identified benchmarks are met within the expected timelines. UNMIL should also continue to focus on building the capacity of the Liberian counterparts, in particular within the security sector.
V. Conclusion
104. Members of the Security Council mission wish to express their appreciation to all their interlocutors during their visit for the very useful and constructive exchanges of views. Ambassadors Sawers, Rugunda, Ripert, and Rice, in their respective capacities as leaders of the visit’s various segments, would like to collectively express their gratitude for the Governments of Ethiopia, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and the African Union for their support and hospitality. They would also like pay tribute to the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and for Liberia, as well as to MONUC and UNMIL for their proactive participation and for contributing to the successful outcome of the mission. Finally, they wish to express their appreciation to the Secretariat for all its support.
S/2009/303
09-37053 28
Annex I
Ambassador Jorge Urbina (Costa Rica)
Ambassador Ranko Viloviü (Croatia)
Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert (France)
Ambassador Yukio Takasu (Japan)
Ambassador Abdurrahman Shalgham (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)
Ambassador Claude Heller (Mexico)
Senior Counsellor Vladimir Safronkov (Russian Federation)
Minister Fazli Çorman (Turkey)
Ambassador Ruhakana Rugunda (Uganda)
Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Ambassador Susan Rice (United States of America)
Ambassador Hoang Chi Trung (Viet Nam)
Terms of reference
I Security Council mission to Africa: terms of reference
African Union
Led by the Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) and Ambassador Ruhukana Rugunda (Uganda)
1. To continue to develop an effective partnership and enhance cooperation between the African Union and the United Nations through an exchange of views on issues of interest to both the United Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council.
2. To exchange views on situations of interest to both the United Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace and Security Council, which include but are not limited to the following:
(a) A brief overview of the peace and security situation in Africa;
* Previously circulated in document S/2009/243.
S/2009/303
29 09-37053
(b) The situation in the Sudan:
(i) Darfur: the challenges to the political process and the functioning of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID);
(ii) Humanitarian situation in Darfur;
(iii) Implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the challenges being faced;
(iv) Sudan/Chad: the role of the Dakar contact group and the challenges to the implementation of the Doha Agreement and previous bilateral agreements;
(c) The situation in Somalia:
(i) Political, security and military developments in Somalia and the functioning of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), including the United Nations logistical support package for AMISOM;
(ii) Piracy;
(d) The situation in the Great Lakes region, in particular eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo: progress and challenges to stabilization in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(e) The resurgence of unconstitutional changes of government: efforts undertaken by the African Union to resolve and prevent unconstitutional changes of Government.
II Great Lakes region (Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda)
General elements
1. To recall the commitment of the Security Council to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of all States in the region.
2. To express the strong support of the Security Council for the improvement of relations among the countries of the region and to encourage them to continue reinforcing their political, military and economic cooperation in order to guarantee the long-term stabilization of the Great Lakes region.
3. To reiterate support for the strengthening of the regional dynamic, including through the development, where appropriate, of economic projects of common interest and the implementation of appropriate steps to facilitate legal trade and put an end to illegal trafficking of natural resources.
4. To stress that all parties should reinvigorate their participation in the Goma and Nairobi processes, which are the agreed framework for stabilizing the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and urge all parties to fully recommit to their respective disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration programmes.
5. To emphasize the support of the Council for action against the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA).
6. To underline the importance of full implementation of the sanctions measures put in place through resolution 1857 (2008).
S/2009/303
09-37053 30
7. To underscore the scale of the resources committed by the United Nations to peacekeeping in the Great Lakes region and the need for a clear commitment of cooperation on the part of all national and regional actors.
8. To emphasize the continuing concerns of the Council about the protection of civilians, to address the situation of internally displaced civilians and to advocate for respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, to raise awareness of the need for sexual violence and child protection issues to be addressed, and to encourage the parties and Governments concerned to ensure that those responsible for serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law are brought to justice.
Additional elements for the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Led by Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert (France)
9. To acknowledge the primary responsibility of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to consolidate peace and stability, and to promote recovery and development in the country, which require long-term sustained efforts and appropriate international support.
10. To reaffirm the support of the Security Council to the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and to receive a briefing on the MONUC strategic workplan requested by the Council in its resolution 1856 (2008).
11. To get updates on the Kimia II and Rubia II operations, jointly planned and conducted by the Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) and MONUC against the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), the Lord’s Resistance Army and other armed groups, and to reaffirm that all military operations should be carried out in accordance with international humanitarian, human rights and refugee law and take appropriate measures to protect civilians.
12. To call on the Congolese authorities to intensify their efforts to reform the security sector, with the assistance of the international community.
13. To emphasize the support of the Council for the strengthening of democratic institutions, the rule of law, and good governance in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including through the holding of local elections.
14. To examine ways to improve the protection of civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in particular to strengthen its efforts to prevent and respond to sexual violence and to enhance child protection, bearing in mind the conclusions of the Security Council Working Group on Children and Armed Conflict.
15. To recall the utmost importance of the fight against impunity, notably in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, by bringing to justice those who have committed crimes and atrocities.
S/2009/303
31 09-37053
Additional elements for Rwanda
Led by Ambassador John Sawers (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
16. To discuss Rwandan concerns in the region, and how these can be addressed while respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States in the Great Lakes region.
III Liberia
Led by Ambassador Susan Rice (United States of America)
1. To reaffirm the continued support of the Security Council for the Government and people of Liberia as they rebuild their country, strengthen the foundations of sustainable peace, constitutional democracy, and economic development and assume their rightful place in the community of nations.
2. To express support for the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and their efforts to promote peace and security in Liberia.
3. To review progress in the implementation of the mandate of UNMIL, in particular progress made in meeting the benchmarks outlined in the eighteenth progress report of the Secretary-General (S/2009/86), and assess the logistic constraints affecting the UNMIL troop and police mobility.
4. To assess the operational capacity and sustainability of the Liberian National Police and other national security institutions, and assess progress made in training the Armed Forces of Liberia.
5. To encourage Liberian authorities to increase their efforts to prepare national security institutions to assume greater responsibility for responding to law and order challenges.
6. To express support for the efforts of the Government of Liberia to extend and consolidate effective State authority in all 15 counties of the country, with the assistance of the international community.
7. To examine the impact of subregional factors on the situation in Liberia, and explore ways to strengthen regional cooperation, including measures to counter the threat of illegal drug trafficking.
8. To underline the importance of promoting and protecting the rights of civilians, in particular women and children, and assess progress in combating violence against children and women, including sexual and gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse.
9. To underline the support of the Council for civil society, including women’s groups.
10. To underline the need for full implementation of the sanctions regime on Liberia.
S/2009/303
